Case id : 4203
STA : 
 2.      Section 110 of the Customs Act, 1962 reads as under:- 110. Seizure of goods, documents and things. – (1) If the proper officer has reason to believe that any goods are liable to confiscation under this Act, he may seize such goods;: Provided that where it is not practicable to seize any such goods, the proper officer may serve on the owner of the goods an order that he shall not remove, part with, or otherwise deal with the goods except with the previous permission of such officer.
 (1A) The Central Government may, having regard to the perishable or hazardous nature of any goods, depreciation in the value of the goods with the passage of time, constraints of storage space for the goods or any other relevant considerations, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify the goods or class of goods which shall, as soon as may be after its seizure under sub-section (1), be disposed of by the proper officer in such manner as the Central Government may, from time to time, determine after following the procedure hereinafter specified.

STA : 
 (1B) Where any goods, being goods specified under sub- section (1A), have been seized by a proper officer under sub- section (1), he shall prepare an inventory of such goods containing such details relating to their description, quality, quantity, mark, numbers, country of origin and other particulars as the proper officer may consider relevant to the identity of the goods in any proceedings under this Act and shall make an application to a Magistrate for the purpose of – (a) certifying the correctness of the inventory so prepared; or (b) taking, in the presence of the Magistrate, photographs of such goods, and certifying such photographs as true; or (c) allowing to draw representative samples of such goods, in the presence of the Magistrate, and certifying the correctness of any list of samples so drawn.
 (1C) Where an application is made under sub-section (1B), the Magistrate shall, as soon as may be, allow the application.
 (2) Where any goods are seized under sub-section (1) and no notice in respect thereof is given under clause (a) of section 124 within six months of the seizure of the goods, the goods shall be returned to the person from whose possession they were seized: Provided that the aforesaid period of six months may, on sufficient cause being shown, be extended by the Commissioner of Customs for a period not exceeding six months.

STA : 
 (3) The proper officer may seize any documents or things which, in his opinion, will be useful for, or relevant to, any proceeding under this Act.

STA : 
 (4) The person from whose custody any documents are seized under sub-section (3) shall be entitled to make copies thereof or take extracts therefrom in the presence of an officer of customs.” 3.       

STA : 
 5.       For present purposes, Section 3(4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr.P.C.) provides the necessary guidelines, it reads thus:- “3. Construction of references.- (1) In this Code, - XXX (4)

STA : Where, under any law, other than this Code, the function exercisable by a Magistrate relate to matters- (a) which involve the appreciation or sifting of evidence or the formulation of any decision which exposes any person to any punishment or penalty or detention in custody pending investigation, inquiry or trial or would have the effect of sending him for trial before any Court, they shall, subject to the provisions of this Code, be exercisable by a Judicial Magistrate; or (b) which are administrative or executive in nature, such as, the granting of a license, the suspension or cancellation of a license, sanctioning a prosecution or withdrawing from a prosecution, they shall, subject as aforesaid, be exercisable by an Executive Magistrate.”


Case id : 4173
STA : 
 Sub-section (3) of section 22 of the Act reads as under: "(3) If any dealer or person collects tax on transactions not liable to tax under this Act or in excess of the tax leviable to under this Act, such dealer or person shall, unless it is established to the satisfaction of the assessing authority that the tax so collected has been refunded to the person who had originally paid tax, pay over to the Government, in addition to the tax payable the amount so collected within such time and in such manner as may be prescribed."

STA : 
 A State Legislature is competent to make a law under entry 54 of List II in Seventh Schedule to the Constitution in respect of "taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than newspapers subject to the provisions of entry 92A of List I".


Case id : 4147
STA : Bearing in mind the object behind the enactment of s. 16 and on a consideration of the terms of the section the true meaning and scope of the, first proviso seemed to be that the settlement in the present case was revocable in its entirety thus attracting the substantive clause of s. 16 (1) (c).
Clause (c) was introduced in s. 16(1) in the year 1939.

STA : At the material time s. 16(1) stood thus :- "S. 16(1) In computing the total income of an assessee (a).....................
                         (b)....................
                         (c) all income arising to any person by virtue of a settlement or disposition whether revocable or not, and whether effected before or after the commencement of the Indian Income tax (Amendment Act, 1939 from asserts remaining the property of the settlor or disponer, shall be deemed to be income of the settlor or disponer and all income arising to any person by virtue of a revocable transfer of assets shall be deemed to be income of the transferor

STA : Provided that for the purposes of this clause a settlement, disposition of transfer shall be deemed to be revocable if it contains any provision for the retransfer directly or indirectly of the income or assets to the set- tlor, disponer or transferor, or in any way gives the settlor, disponer or transferor a right to reassume power directly or indirectly over income or assets;                         

STA : Provided further that the expression 'settlement or disposition' shall for the purposes of this clause include an disposition, trust covenant, agreement or arrangement and the expression 'settlor or disponer' in relation to a settlement or disposition shall include any person by whom the settlement or disposition was made;

STA : Provided further that this clause shall not apply to any income arising to any person by virtue of a settlement or disposition which is not revocable for a period exceeding six years or during the life time of the person and from which income the settlor or disponer derives no direct or indirect benefit but that the settlor shall be liable to be assessed on the said income as and when the power to revoke arises to him."


Case id : 4204

Case id : 4142

Case id : 4253

Case id : 4233

Case id : 4162

Case id : 4232

Case id : 4225

Case id : 4237

Case id : 4101
STA : A perusal of Section 375 of the I.P.C. would show that one of the most important facets in the definition of rape is penetration into parts of the body of a woman as specified in the said provision.


Case id : 4121

Case id : 4197
STA : Sub-section (4) of Section 80-IB provides for hundred per cent deduction for a period of five years and thereafter twenty-five per cent.

STA : First proviso thereto states that total period of deduction is not to exceed ten consecutive Assessment Years.

STA : Second proviso is a specific provision for industries in the North-Eastern Region to which we shall advert to at the appropriate stage.

STA : Sub-section (2) enumerates the conditions which are to be fulfilled by such industrial undertakings in order to qualify for deductions from profits and gains under that provision.

STA : 
 5. Sub-section (3), as noted above, mentions the period of ten Assessment Years commencing with the initial Assessment Year.

STA : 
 Sub-section (6) may also be taken note of at this stage which reads as under: "(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no deduction shall be allowed to any undertaking or enterprise under this section, where the total period of deduction inclusive of the period of deduction under this section, or under the second proviso to sub-section (4) of section 80- IB or under section 10C, as the case may be, exceeds ten assessment years."
 6.


Case id : 4289

Case id : 4247
STA : . Again, it has consistently been laid down that the protection under Section 197 of the Code is available to the public servants when an offence is said to have been committed `while acting or purporting to act in discharge of their official duty', but where the acts are performed using the office as a mere cloak for unlawful gains, such acts are not protected.


Case id : 4087
STA : 11. For the purpose of Section 278 B of the IT Act, the company can be proceeded against by issuing a notice to the „principal officer‟ of the company as defined under Section 2 (35) of the IT Act, which reads as under: 'Section 2 (35) “principal officer”, used with reference to a local authority or a company or any other public body or any association of persons or anybody of individuals, means (a) the secretary, treasurer, manager, or agent of the authority, company, association or body, or (b) any person connected with the management or administration of the local authority, company, association or body upon whom the Assessing Officer has served a notice of his intention of treating him as the principal officer thereof;' 12.

STA : Section 278 B reads as under: "278B. Offences by companies (1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

STA : 
 (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

STA : Explanation.- For the purposes of this section,- (a) “company" means a body corporate, and includes- (i) a firm; and (ii) an association of persons or a body of individuals whether incorporated or not; and (b) " director', in relation to- (i) a firm, means a partner in the firm; (ii) any association of persons or a body of individuals, means any member controlling the affairs thereof 13.


Case id : 4111

Case id : 4140
STA : After adverting to the provisions of the Code, namely, Sections 2(c), 2(d) and 2(h) which define `cognizable offence', `complaint' and `investigation' respectively, this Court had referred to Section 4 of the Code, which reads as under: "4. Trial of offences under the Indian Penal Code and other laws.-- (1) All offences under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with according to the provisions hereinafter contained.

STA : 
 (2) All offences under any other law shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with according to the same provisions, but subject to any enactment for the time being in force regulating the manner or place of investigating, inquiring into, trying or otherwise dealing with such offences."


Case id : 4124
STA : 
       Two of the salient features of the Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1986 (No. 43 of 1986) stated in the State- ment of Objects and Reasons of the Bill are as under: "(e) Offences under the Act are proposed to be made non-bailable.

STA : 
 "(g) A new offence of "dowry death"
                         is proposed to be included in the Indian Penal Code and the necessary consequential amend- ments in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 have also been proposed."

STA : By sections 10, 11 and 12, amendments were made in the Indian Penal Code, Code of Criminal Proce- dure, 1973 and the Indian' Evidence Act, 1872, as part of the same scheme as follows: "10.

STA : In the Indian Penal Code, after, section 304-A, the following section shall be inserted, namely: '304-B. Dowry death.

STA : (1) Where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise then under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that .soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harass- ment by her husband or any relative of her husband for, Or in connection with, any demand for dowry such death shall be called "dowry death", and such husband or relative shall be deemed to have caused her death.

STA : 
 Explanation-For the purposes of this sub-section, ,'dowry". shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of the Dowry Prohibi- tion Act, 196 1 (28 of 1961).

STA : 
 (2) Whoever commits dowry death shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for "11.

STA : In the Code of Criminal Proce- dure, 1973, in the First Schedule after the entries relating to section 304-A, the follow- ing entries shall be inserted, namely: Section Offence Punishment COgnizable Bailable or By what or non-  non-bail-  Court

STA : cognizable able     tribale "304-B ' Dowry Imprison- Ditto Non-      Court of death ment of not             bailable ' Session."
 lesS' than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for life.

STA : 
 ' "12.

STA : In the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, after section 113-A, the following section shall be insert- ed, namely:- "11.3-B. Presumption as to dowry death.-When the question is whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her 'death.

STA : such woman has been subjected by such .person to cruelty Or harassment for, or in connecting with, any demand for dowry, the Court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.

STA : 
 Explanation.-For the purpose of this section', "dowry death" shall have the same meaning as in section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)."
 

STA : In our opinion, this would clearly deny to them the protection afforded by clause (1) of Article 20 of the Constitution which reads as under: "20.. Protection in respect of con- viction for offences.

STA : --(1) No person shall be convicted of any offence except for violation of the law in force at the time of the commis- sion of the act charged as an offence, 'nor be subjected to a penalty greater than that which might have been inflicted under the law in force at the time of the commission of the offence. ' '

STA : " In our opinion ,. the protection given by Article 20(1) is a complete answer to the appellant's contention.


Case id : 4137

Case id : 4182

Case id : 4070
STA : Section 13 of the Act prescribes that every dealer who is liable to get himself registered under section 12 or section 12-A as the case may be under the Act shall submit such return or returns relating to his turnover in such manner within such period and to such authority as may be prescribed.

STA : The material part of section 14 which is relevant for purposes of these cases reads thus: "14. Assessment of tax: ( I) If the assessing authority is satisfied that any return submitted under section 13 is correct and complete, he shall assess the amount of tax payable by the dealer on the basis thereof, but if the return appears to him to be incorrect or incomplete he shall, after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of proving the correctness and completeness of the return submitted by him and making such inquiry as he deems necessary, assess to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax due from the dealer.
                  

STA : An assessment under this section shall be made only within a period of four years from the expiry of the year to which the assessment relates.

STA : 
                                         ...................

STA : 
 (3) Where any dealer liable to tax under this Act- (i) fails to submit return before the date prescribed in that behalf, or (ii) produces the accounts, registered and other documents after inspection, or (iii) submits a return subsequent to the date of inspection, the assessing authority may, at any time within a period of six years from the expiry of the year to which assessment relates, after issuing a notice to the dealer and after such enquiry as he considers necessary, assess to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax due from the dealer on his turnover for that year, and may direct the dealer to pay in addition to the tax so assessed penalty as specified in subsection (8)."
         

STA : Sub-section ( ]) of section 14 of the Act provides that if the assessing authority is satisfied that any return submitted under section 13 is correct and complete, he shall assess the amount of tax payable by the dealer on the basis thereof but if the return appears to the assessing authority to be incorrect or incomplete he shall after giving the dealer reasonable opportunity of proving the correctness and completeness of the return submitted and making such inquiry as he deems necessary, assess to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax due from the dealer.

STA : Sub-section (3) of section 14 of the Act authorises the assessing authority to make an assessment to the best of his judgment in three cases: (i) where a dealer under the Act fails to submit return before the date prescribed in that behalf, (ii) where a dealer produces the accounts. registers and other documents after inspection and (iii) where a dealer submits a return subsequent to the date of inspection.

STA : Section 13 of the Act as stated above provides that every dealer shall submit such return or returns relating to his turnover in such manner within such period and to such authority as may be prescribed.

STA : We may here point out that even in a case falling under subsection (1) of section 14 of the Act it is possible for the assessing authority to make a best judgment assessment as can be seen from the latter part of the said sub-section which reads: "but if the return appears to him to be incorrect or incomplete he shall after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of proving the correctness and completeness of the return submitted by him and making such inquiry as he deems necessary, assess to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax due from the dealer."


Case id : 4156

Case id : 4097
STA : Under s. 21 of the Act, the High Court exercises a similar advisory jurisdiction, and under sub-s. (3) of that section, the High Court may require the Board of Revenue to state a case and refer it to the High Court, when the High Court is satisfied that the refusal of the Board to make a reference to the High Court under sub-s.
(2) is not justified.

STA : Under sub-s. (5) of s. 21 the High Court hears the reference and decides the question of law referred to it, giving in a judgment the grounds of its decision.

STA : Sub-section (1) of s. 10 of the Act states that if the Commissioner is satisfied without requiring the presence of a registered dealer or the production by him of any evidence that the returns furnished in respect of any period are correct and complete, he shall assess the amount of tax due from the dealer on the basis of such returns.

STA : Clause (a) of sub-s.
(2) states what the Commissioner shall do, if he is not satisfied without requiring the presence of a registered dealer who furnished the returns or production of evidence that the returns furnished in respect of any period are correct and complete; the clause states that in that event the Commissioner shall serve on the dealer a notice in the prescribed manner requiring him either to attend in person or to produce or cause to be produced any evidence on which such dealer may rely in support of his returns.

STA : Then comes cl. (b) of sub-s. (2) which must be quoted in extenso: " (b) On the day specified in the notice or as soon afterwards as may be, the Commissioner, after hearing such evidence as the dealer may produce, and such other evidence as the Commissioner may require on specified points, shall assess the amount of tax due from the dealer."

STA : Sub-section (3) of s. 23 of the Indian Income-tax Act requires the Income-tax Officer to assess the total income of the assessee and determine the sum payable by him on the basis of such assessment, by "an order in writing"; but cl. (b) of sub-s. (2) of s. 10 of the Act requires the Commissioner to assess the amount of tax due from the dealer and does not impose any liability as to "an order in writing."


Case id : 4108

Case id : 4099

Case id : 4275

Case id : 4251
STA : Article 20(1) of the Constitution of India reads thus : "Art.20. Protection in respect of conviction for offence (1) No person shall be convicted of any offence except for violation of a law in force at the time of the commission of the act charged as offence, nor be subjected to a penalty greater than that which might have been inflicted under the law in force at the time of the commission of the offence."
 

STA : 
 11]  Section 10(1) of the Act of 2000 reads thus : "10(1) However not being a person belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Denotified Tribes, (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes or Special Backward Category secures admission in any educational institution against a seat reserved for such Castes, Tribes or Classes, or in any other Company or Corporation, owned or controlled by the Government or in any Government aided institution or Cooperative Society against a post reserved for such Castes, Tribes or Classes by producing a false Caste Certificate shall, on cancellation of the Caste Certificate by the Scrutiny Committee, be liable to be debarred from the concerned educational institution, or as the case may be, discharged from the said employment forthwith and any other benefits enjoyed or derived by virtue of such admission or appointment by such person as aforesaid shall be withdrawn forthwith."

STA : The next provision is Section 11 of the Act of 2000 which is reproduced below in its entirety as under : "11. Offences and penalties.

STA : 
 (1)  Whoever, (a)  obtain a false Caste Certificate by furnishing false information or filing false statement or documents or by any other fraudulent means; or (b)  not being a person belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Denotified Tribes, (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes or Special Backward Category secures any benefits or appointments exclusively reserved for such Castes, Tribes or Classes in the Government, local authority or any other company or corporation owned or controlled by the Government or in any Government aided institution, or secures admission in any educational institution against a seat exclusively reserved for such Castes, Tribes or Classes or is elected to any of the elective offices of any local authority or Cooperative Society against the office, reserved for such Castes, Tribes or Classes by producing a false Caste Certificate; shall, on conviction, be punished, with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but which may extent up to two years or with fine which shall not be less than two thousand rupees, but which may extend up to twenty thousand rupees or both.

STA : 
 (2)  No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this section except upon a complaint, in writing, made by the Scrutiny Committee or by any other officer duly authorized by the Scrutiny Committee for this purpose."

STA : 13]       It is clear from Section 11(1)(a) that obtaining a false caste certificate by furnishing false information etc or by any other fraudulent means is an offence.

STA : Section 11(1)(b) relates to production of false certificate for obtaining benefits by a person not belonging to such reserved category which has been made an offence.

STA : The sentence provided is not less than six months which may extend to two years or with fine.

STA : Subsection (2) of Section 11 provides a procedure for filing of criminal case.

STA : Subsection (2) of Section 11 provides that no Court shall take cognizance of offences under this section.

STA : It provides that upon filing of a compliant in writing made by the Scrutiny Committee or its authorized officer the Court may take cognizance.

STA : 
 14]  Section 12 of the Act of 2000, reads thus : "12.       Offences under Act to be cognizable and non bailable.

STA :  Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (a) offences punishable under section 11 shall be cognizable and nonbailable; (b) every offence punishable under this Act, shall be tried by any Magistrate of First Class in a summary way and provisions of sections 262 except sub section (2) to 265 both inclusive of this Code, shall as far as possible may be applied to such trial."

STA : Section 13 of the Act of 2000, reads thus : "13. Penalty for issuing false Caste Certificate.

STA : 
 (1)Any person or authority performing the functions of Competent Authority under this Act, who intentionally issues a false Caste Certificate, shall on conviction, be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but which may extend upto two years or with fine which shall not be less than two thousand rupees, but which may extend upto twenty thousand rupees or both.

STA : (2)No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this section except with the previous sanction of the Government."
 18]  Section 13 has been engrafted with a view to punish those who issue false caste certificates intentionally while performing their function as competent authority with a rider that such a prosecution could be launched with the sanction under Section 13 of the Act of 2000.


Case id : 4267

Case id : 4207

Case id : 4264
STA : Section 7A of the 2000 Act is as follows: "7A. Procedure to be followed when claim of juvenility is raised before any court-- (1) Whenever a claim of juvenility is raised before any court or a court is of the opinion that an accused person was a juvenile on the date of commission of the offence, the court shall make an inquiry, take such evidence as may be necessary (but not an affidavit) so as to determine the age of such person, and shall record a finding whether the person is a juvenile or a child or not, stating his age as nearly as may be: Provided that a claim of juvenility may be raised before any court and it shall be recognised at any stage, even after final disposal of the case, and such claim shall be determined in terms of the provisions contained in this Act and the rules made thereunder, even if the juvenile has ceased to be so on or before the date of commencement of this Act.
 (2) If the court finds a person to be a juvenile on the date of commission of the offence under subsection (1), it shall forward the juvenile to the Board for passing appropriate orders and the sentence, if any, passed by a court shall be deemed to have no effect."

STA : Subrule (3) of Rule 12 of the 2007 Rules states the following regarding the procedure to be followed for age determination: "In every case concerning a child or juvenile in conflict with law, the age determination inquiry shall be conducted by the court or the Board or, as the case may be, the Committee by seeking evidence by obtaining  (a) (i) the matriculation or equivalent certificates, if available; and in the absence whereof; (ii) the date of birth certificate from the school (other than a play school) first attended; and in the absence whereof; (iii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal authority or a panchayat; (b) and only in the absence of either (i), (ii) or (iii) of clause (a) above, the medical opinion will be sought from a duly constituted Medical Board, which will declare the age of the juvenile or child.

STA : In case exact assessment of the age cannot be done, the Court or the Board or, as the case may be, the Committee, for the reasons to be recorded by them, may, if considered necessary, give benefit to the child or juvenile by considering his/her age on lower side within the margin of one year, and while passing orders in such case shall, after taking into consideration such evidence as may be available, or the medical opinion, as the case may be, record a finding in respect of his age and either of the evidence specified in any of the clauses (a)(i), (ii), (iii) or in the absence whereof, clause (b) shall be the conclusive proof of the age as regards such child or the juvenile in conflict with law."


Case id : 4266
STA : Section 3 of the State Act is the charging section which reads as under:- 3. (1) There shall be levied and collected a tax on the lottery schemes specified in column (2) of the Table hereunder, at the rates specified against them in column (3) of the said Table:- TABLE No

STA : .                 Lottery Schemes       Rate of Tax 1 2                     3 1 2  

STA : Weekly lottery scheme            50,000 3  Fortnightly lottery scheme or any 1,00,000 4  lottery scheme between week and fortnight Monthly lottery scheme or any    2,00,000 lottery scheme of any duration exceeding fortnight Bumper lottery scheme

STA :            10,00,000 (2) The tax levied under sub-section (1) shall be paid by the Promoter.

STA : Though the term scheme has not been defined in the Act, the term lottery has been defined by Section 2(d) of the Act which reads as under:- 2.

STA : In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires- (d) lottery means a scheme, in whatever form and by whatever name called, for distribution of prizes by lot or chances to those persons participating in the chances of a prize, by purchasing tickets, conducted as per the provisions of the Lotteries (Regulation) Act,1998.

STA : The term Promoter is defined under sub-section (f) of Section 2 of the Act, which reads as under:- 2(f) Promoter means the Government of any State or an Union Territory or any country organizing, conducting or promoting a lottery and includes any person appointed as first importer for marketing lottery tickets in the State of Maharashtra on behalf of such Government or country where such Government or country is not directly marketing or conducting lottery schemes in the State.

STA : The Respondent-State is relying on Entry 62 in List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution which reads as under:- 62.Taxes on luxuries, including taxes on entertainments, amusements, betting and gambling

STA : Entry 40 in List I of the Seventh Schedule reads as under:- 40.

STA : Lotteries organised by the Government of India or the Government of a State.

STA : And others referred to above, they read as under:- 100.

STA : Article 265 mandates  no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.


Case id : 4257

Case id : 4127

Case id : 4126
STA : Section 429 of the, Criminal Procedure Code states "that when the Judges comprising the Court of Appeal are equally divided in opinion, the case with their opinion thereon, shall be laid before another Judge of the same Court and such Judge, after such hearing, if any, as he thinks fit shall deliver his opinion, and the judgment or order shall follow such opinion".


Case id : 4179

Case id : 4276

Case id : 4109
STA : Section 31 of the Act is to the following effect "31.

STA : (1) The Appellate Assistant Commissioner shall fix a day and place for the hearing of the appeal, and may from time to time adjourn the hearing.
                         (2) The Appellate Assistant Commissioner may, before disposing of any appeal, make such further inquiry as lie thinks fit, or cause further inquiry to be made by the Income-tax Officer......
                         (3) In disposing of an appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may, in the case of an order of assessment,- (a) confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment, or (b) set aside the assessment and direct the Income-tax Officer to make a fresh assessment after making such further inquiry as the Income-tax Officer thinks fit or the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may direct', and the Income-tax Officer shall thereupon proceed to make such fresh assessment and determine where necessary the amount of tax payable on the basis of such fresh assessment........


Case id : 4250

Case id : 4085

Case id : 4107
STA : 
 Section 354(3) of the new Code gives the convicting judge, on a murder charge, a discretion to choose between capital sentence and life term.

STA : The said section reads: "377.

STA : In every case so submitted the confirmation of the sentence, or any new sentence or order passed by the High Court, shall, when such Court consists of two or more Judges, be made, passed and signed by at least two of them."
 


Case id : 4282

Case id : 4234

Case id : 4133
STA : Section 48 of the said Act provides the manner in which the income chargeable under the head capital gains is to be computed i.e. by deducting costs of acquisition of the capital asset from the full consideration received on the transfer of the capital asset.


Case id : 4076

Case id : 4153

Case id : 4218

Case id : 4110
STA : 
 14. Section 139 of the N.I. Act speaks about presumption in favour of holder of negotiable instrument.

STA : It says that, unless contrary is proved, it shall be presumed that the holder of a cheque receives the cheque of the nature referred to under Section 138 of the N.I.Act for the discharge in whole or in part of any debt or other liability.


Case id : 4270

Case id : 4157

Case id : 4144

Case id : 4248

Case id : 4273

Case id : 4256
STA : According to section 4 of the Indian Sale of Goods Act a contract of sale of goods is a contract whereby the seller transfer,% or agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a price and where under a contract of sale the property in the goods is transferred from the seller to the buyer, the contract is called a sale, but where the transfer of property in the goods is to take place at a future time or subject to some condition thereafter to be fulfilled, the contract is called an agreement to sell.

STA : By sub-section (4) of that section an agreement to sell becomes a sale when the time elapses or the conditions are fulfilled subject to which the property in the goods is to be transferred.

STA : 
Section 18 of the Act clearly indicates that in the case of sale of unascertained goods no property in the goods is transferred to the buyer unless and until the goods, are ascertained.

STA : This is further elaborated by section 25 which provides that where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods or where goods are subsequently appropriated to the contract, the seller may, by the. terms. of the contract or appropriation,, reserve the right of disposal of the goods until certain conditions are fulfilled.


Case id : 4191

Case id : 4176

Case id : 4249

Case id : 4287

Case id : 4194

Case id : 4195
STA : That provision reads thus: "(1) If-- (a) the Income-tax Officer has reason to believe that by reason of the omission of failure on the part of an assessee to make a return of his income under section 22 for any year or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, income, profits or gains chargeable to income-tax have escaped assessment for that year, or have been under- assessed, or assessed at too low a rate, or have been made the subject of excessive relief under the Act, or excessive loss or depre- ciation allowance has been computed, or....
 he may in cases falling under clause (a) at any time . . . . . . serve on the assessee a notice containing all or any of the require- ments which may be included in a notice under sub-section (2) of section 22 and may proceed to assess or re-assess such income, profits or gains or recompute the loss or depreciation allowance; and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that subsection:"
 

STA : Then follows the first proviso which runs thus: "               provided that the Income-tax Officer shall not issue, a notice under clause (a) of sub-section (1) (i) for any year prior to the year ending on the 31st day of March 1941; (ii) for any year, if eight years have elapsed after the expiry of that year, unless the income, profits or gains chargeable to income-tax which have escaped assessment or have been underassessed or assessed at too low a rate or have been made the subject of excessive relief under this Act, or the loss or depreciation allowance which has been computed in excess, amount to, or are likely to amount to, one lakh of rupees or more in the aggregate, either for that year, or for that year and any other year or years after which or after each of which eight years have elapsed, not being a year or years ending be- fore the 31st day of March 1941; (iii) for any year, unless he has recorded his reasons for doing so, and, in any case falling under clause (ii), unless the Central Board of Revenue, and, in any other case, the Commissioner, is satisfied on such reasons recorded that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice:"
 

STA : We would quote s. 34(3) and the second proviso to it.

STA : They run thus: "No order of assessment or reassessment, other than an order of assessment under section 23 to which clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 28 applies or an order of assessment or reassessment in cases falling within clause (a) of sub-section (1) or sub-section (]A) of this section shall be made after the expiry of four years from the end of the year in which the income profits or gains were first assessable: Provided further that nothing contained in this seetion limiting the time within which any action may be taken or any order, assessment or reassessment may be made shall apply to a reassessment made under section 27 or to an assessment or re-assessment made on the assessee or any person in consequence of or to give effect to any finding or direction contained in an order under section 31, section 33, section 33A, section 33B. section 66 or section 66A."The


Case id : 4077
STA : 
 7. Section 20 of the NDPS Act provides for punishment.

STA : It reads as under: "Section 20. Punishment for contravention in relation to cannabis plant and cannabis.-

STA : Whoever, in contravention of any provisions of this Act or any rule or order made or condition of licence granted thereunder,- (a) cultivates any cannabis plant; or (b) produces, manufactures, possesses, sells, purchases, transports, imports inter-State, exports inter-State or uses cannabis, shall be punishable (i) where such contravention relates to clause (a) with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine which may extend to one lakh rupees; and (ii) where such contravention relates to sub-clause (b),- (A) and involves small quantity, with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine, which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both.

STA : 
 (B) and involves quantity lesser than commercial quantity but greater than small quantity, with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years and with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees; (C) and involves commercial quantity, with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years but which may extend to twenty years and shall also be liable to fine which shall not be less than one lakh rupees but which may extend to two lakh rupees: Provided that the court may, for reasons to be recorded in the judgment, impose a fine exceeding two lakh rupees."
 8.

STA : Sub-section (a) thereof reads as under: "Section 36A.- Offences triable by Special Courts.-

STA : (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),- (a) all offences under this Act which are punishable with imprisonment for a term of more than three years shall be triable only by the Special court constituted for the area in which the offence has been committed or where there are more Special Courts than one for such area, by such one of them as may be specified in this behalf by the Government."
 10.

STA : The said section is extracted as here below: "Section 37. Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable.-

STA : (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)- (a)        every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable; (b) no person accused of an offence punishable for offences under section 19 or section 24 or section 27A and also for offences involving commercial quantity shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless-- (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release."

STA : 
 (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail.

STA : 
 (2) The limitations on granting of bail specified in clause (b) of sub-section (1) are in addition to the limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) or any other law for the time being in force, on granting of bail."
 12.


Case id : 4187

Case id : 4285
STA : 
 Section 279 of the IPC deals with rash and negligent driving endangering human life.

STA : Section 304A of the IPC deals with causing death by negligence.

STA : Causing of death of a person by doing any rash and negligent act not amounting to culpabale homicide is made punishable by this Section of the IPC.

STA : Section 337 of the IPC deals with causing hurt to any person by doing any rash and negligent act endangering human life or the personal safety of others.

STA : Section 134(a) and (b) of the M.V.Act deals with lapses on the part of driver of the motor vehicle.


Case id : 4281

Case id : 4184

Case id : 4229

Case id : 4149

Case id : 4129
STA : 2.         

STA : In this regard the following provisions of the Act of 1955 are relevant: "21. Application of Act 5 of 1908.

STA : Subject to the other provisions contained in this Act and to such rules as the High Court may make in this behalf, all proceedings under this Act shall be regulated, as far as may be, by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908."
 "23A. Relief for respondent in divorce and other proceedings.

STA : In any proceedings for divorce or judicial separation or restitution of conjugal rights, the respondent may not only oppose the relief sought on the ground of petitioner's adultery, cruelty or desertion, but also make a counterclaim for any relief under this Act on the ground, and if the petitioner's adultery, cruelty or desertion is proved the Court may give to the respondent any relief if he or she had presented a petition seeking such relief on that ground."
 10.  A perusal of the above quoted Section 23A of the Act of 1955, that any proceedings for divorce initiated by a party, the respondent would be entitled to raise a counterclaim and it would have to be treated as if the respondent had filed a petition seeking such relief.

STA : The provision reads as under : "23A. Relief for respondent in divorce and other proceedings.

STA : In any proceedings for divorce or judicial separation or restitution of conjugal rights, the respondent may not only oppose the relief sought on the ground of petitioner's adultery, cruelty or desertion, but also make a counterclaim for any relief under this Act on the ground, and if the petitioner's adultery, cruelty or desertion is proved the Court may give to the respondent any relief if he or she had presented a petition seeking such relief on that ground."
 


Case id : 4190

Case id : 4083
STA : Section 3(1) of the Act provides that the excise commissioner, "shall be the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the administration of this Act."

STA : Section 15(1) provides that "no intoxicant shall be sold except under the authority and subject to the terms and conditions of a licence granted in that behalf."

STA : 
Under S. 15 (2) a licence for sale can be granted (a) by the deputy commissioner if the sale is within a district or (b) by the excise commissioner if the sale -is in more than one districts Section 17 ( 1 ) (b) empowers the state government to lease to any person, on such conditions and for such period as it thinks fit the exclusive or other right of selling by the wholesale or by retail any Indian liquors within any specified area.

STA : Contravention of the Act or any Rules made thereunder is punishable under s. 32. Section 71 empowers the state government to make rules.

STA : Rule 3 of the Mysore Excise (Disposal of Privileges of Retail Vend of Liquors) Rules, 1967 provides that the right of retail vend of liquors shallbe disposed of by tender or by auction or by tender-cum- auction.

STA : The auction is conducted by the deputy commissioner or the divisional commissioner under r. 5 and the tender has to be made to them under r. 7 (1).

STA : The tenderer is required by r. 7 (f ) to deposit as, earnest money an amount equal to 1/4 of the shop rental of the previous year of the shop or groups of shops.

STA : It is not disputed that the appellant made sufficient cash deposits in compliance with r. 10. Rule 12 read & : "Benami bids not allowed.

STA : No person except a power of attorney holder shall be entitled to bid for another person."

STA : 
Rule 17(1) empowers, the officer conducting the auction to accept the highest offer.

STA : 
Rule 17(2) empowers the excise commissioner or the government to revise the order of confirmation.

STA : Rule 17(4) provides that if the officer conducting the sale rejects the highest bid or offer, he may either accept the next highest bid or offer or re-sell the shop.

STA : Rule 17 (5) requires the person whose bid is accepted to make a further deposit which together with the earnest money would make up one month's rent.

STA : 
Rule 19 provides as follows :- "19 Successful bidder to apply for licence: Every person to whom the right of retail vend of liquors is sold or whose tender in respect thereof has been accepted under these rules and who has made deposits as hereinbefore provided shall (1) at once apply in writing for licence for such shop confirmed in his name and within a week thereafter furnish to the Tahsildar the, details of boundaries of the site selected by him for the location of the shop and a statement in the prescribed form annexed to the notification showing details of the immovable property possessed by him or in which he has an interest together with accurate and full details of encumbrances, if any, thereon;                         (5) The purchaser shall get the bond and the mortgage deed registered under the Indian Registration Act, 1908 at his expense.
                         (6) The purchaser or his surety shall produce an encumbrance certificate in cases where immovable property is mortgaged to the Governor of Mysore."
It is not alleged that the appellant did not furnish the details of the shop sites as required by r. 19 sub. r. (1) within 15 days of the date of the confirmation of the sale.


Case id : 4209
STA : Section 304-B of the I.P.C reads as under : "304 B. Dowry death-(1) Where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, such death shall be called " dowry death", and such husband or relative shall be deemed to have caused her death."

STA : 
 17.      Section 107 of the I.P.C defines abetment of a thing.

STA : According to it : "A person abets the doing of a thing who- First-Instigates any person to do that thing ; or Secondly- Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that thing; or Thirdly-Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing."
 

STA : Section 2 of the Dowry Prohibition Act defines dowry as under : "Sec.2 Definition of "dowry"-

STA : In this Act "dowry" means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly - (a) by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage ; or (a) by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person, to either party to the marriage or to any other person ; at or before [or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties, but does not include] dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) applies.

STA : 
 Section 4 of D.P. Act reads as under - [Sec. 4 .Penalty for demanding dowry-

STA : If any person demands, directly or indirectly, from the parents or other relatives or guardian of a bride or bridegroom, as the case may be, any dowry, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months, but which may extend to two years and with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees.

STA : Provided that the court may, for adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than six months.]


Case id : 4235
STA : That section, after referring to section 236 which provides that alternative charges may be drawn up against an accused person where it is doubtful which of several of- fences the facts which can be proved will constitute, states as follows :-- "If ......... the accused is charged with one offence, and it appears in evidence that he committed a different offence for which he might have been charged under the provisions of that section, he may be convicted of the offence which he is shown to have committed, although he was not charged with it."
 


Case id : 4118
STA : 
 7. Section 67 of the Act states that "no objection as to the territorial or pecuniary jurisdiction of any prescribed authority shall be entertained or allowed by any Court, Tribunal or Authority in an appeal or revision, unless such objection was taken before the prescribed authority at the earliest possible opportunity".
 8.


Case id : 4115

Case id : 4277

Case id : 4245
STA : 
 The relevant portion of S. 9 reads as follows "9. (1) The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head 'Income from property' in respect of the bona fide annual value of property consisting of any buildings or lands appurtenant thereto of which he is the owner, other than such portions of such property as he may occupy for the purposes of any business, profession or vocation carried on by him the profits of which are assessable to tax, subject to the following allowances, namely........
                         'Section 10(1) reads : "10. (1) The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head 'Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation' in respect of the profit or gains of any business, profession or vocation carried on by him.
The word "business"

STA : is defined in 2(4) to include "any trade. commerce, or manufacture or any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce or manufacture."


Case id : 4079
STA : Section 417(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code provides that if an order of acquittalis passed in any case instituted upon complaint, the High Court may grant to the complainant special leave to appeal against the order of acquittal.

STA : Section 20 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 prescribes that no prosecution for an offence under that Act should be instituted except by, or with the written consent of, the Central Government or the State Government or a local authority or a person authorised in this behalf, by general or special order, by the Central Government or the State Government or a local authority.

STA : Under s. 20 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954, no question of applying one's mind to the facts of the case before the institution of the complaint arises as the authority to be conferred under that provision can be conferred long before a particular offence has taken place.


Case id : 4148
STA : 
 Section 23(d), as far as relevant, provides: "23. Ways of levying such duties--

STA : Subject to such Rules regulating the time, place and manner, as may be prescribed, excise duty and countervailing duty under section 22 shall be levied in one or more of the follow- ing ways, as may be prescribed, namely:                         (a) .............
                         (aa) ......................
                         (b) ..........................
                         (c)............................
 (d)by fees on licences in respect of manufacture or sale of any excisable articles."
 Rule 8 made the rule making powers, under the Act, interalia, provides: "8.

STA : Fee to be paid-- (1) The licence fee for the several kinds of licences shall be as follows, namely: (1) ..............................
                         (2)..........................
                         (3) ......................
The High Court rightly did not accept the challenge to s.
23(d) of the Act.


Case id : 4135
STA : Section 165 of the Indian Penal Code runs thus:- "165.

STA : Whoever, being a public servant, accepts or obtains, or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain, for himself or for any                         other person, any valuable thing without consideration, or for a consideration which knows to be inadequate from any person whom he knows to have been or to be, or to be likely to be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by such public servant, or having arty connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he knows to be interested in or related to the person so concerned shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both."

STA : 
Section 164 it may be mentioned makes punishable the abetment of offences under s. 162 and 163.


Case id : 4228

Case id : 4183

Case id : 4220

Case id : 4072
STA : Under Clause (1) of Article 19 all citizens shall have the right --- (a) to freedom of speech and expression; (b) to assemble peaceably and without arms; (c) to form association or unions (or co-operative societies); (d) to move freely through out the territory of India; (e) to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India, and [****] (g) to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.


Case id : 4091

Case id : 4114

Case id : 4259
STA : Section 8 of the amending Act substituted a new section in place of s.
 34, and in addition to textual changes with which we are not concerned, also added a proviso to the following effect : "Provided that- (1) the Income-tax Officer shall not issue a notice under this sub-section unless he has recorded his reasons for doing so and the Commissioner is satisfied on such reasons that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice."
 

STA : 
 No doubt, under s. 6 of the General Clauses Act it is provided that where any Act repeals any enactment, then unless a different intention appears, the repeal shall not affect the previous operation of any enactment so repealed or anything duly done thereunder or affect any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under any enactment so repealed.

STA : It further provides that any legal proceedings may be continued or enforced as if the repealing Act had not been passed.


Case id : 4212

Case id : 4280

Case id : 4208

Case id : 4158

Case id : 4193

Case id : 4161

Case id : 4102

Case id : 4128
STA : 
We are of opinion that in so doing the High Court was clearly in error and acted in violation of the provisions of s. 307 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

STA : Section 307 (3) provides:- In dealing with the case so submitted the High Court may exercise any of the powers which it may exercise on an appeal, and subject thereto it shall, after considering the entire evidence and after giving due weight to the opinions of the Sessions Judge and the jury, acquit or convict such accused of any offence of which the jury could have convicted him upon the charge framed and placed before it; and, if it convicts him, may pass such sentence a,% might have been passed by the Court of Sessions."


Case id : 4172

Case id : 4255

Case id : 4192
STA : Prima facie this assessment is barred by s. 34(3) which says "No order of assessment or reassessment, other than an order-of assessment under section 23 to which clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 28 applies or an order of assessment or reassessment in cases falling within clause (a) of sub-section (1) or sub-section (1A) of this section shall be made after the expiry of four years from the end of the year in which the income, profits or gains were first assessable."

STA : 
Clause (e) of s. 2(6A) says "dividend" includes......
 (e)any payment by a company, not being a company in which the public are substantially interested within the meaning of s. 23A, of any sum (whether as representing a part of the assets of company or otherwise) by way of advance or loan to a shareholder or any payment by any such company on behalf or for the individual benefit of a shareholder, to the extent, to which the company in either case possesses accumulated profits."


Case id : 4223

Case id : 4139

Case id : 4167

Case id : 4095

Case id : 13658

Case id : 4254

Case id : 4165
STA : 
 7. In order to establish an offence u/s. 47(a) of the Act, the prosecution must establish the following: (i) The seized substance was I.D. liquor (ii) That the said I.D. liquor was possessed by the accused without any licence or authority.

STA : (iii) That it was seized from the exclusive and conscious possession of the accused.


Case id : 4103
STA : Section 38 of the 'Penal Code says :- "Where several persons are engaged or concerned in the commission of a criminal act, they may be guilty of different offences by means of that Act."


Case id : 4100

Case id : 4163
STA : This means that Section 29 of the Uttar Pradesh Children Act, 1951, was applicable to the case.

STA : This Section reads as follows: "29. Commitment of child to approved school (1) Where a child is found to have committed an offence punishable with transportation or imprisonment, the Court, if satisfied on inquiry that it is expedient so to deal with the child

STA : , may order him to be sent to an approved school for such period of stay as will not exceed beyond the time when the child will attain the age of 18 years or for a shorter period, the reasons for such period to be recorded in writing.

STA : 
 (2) Where prior to the commencement of this Act a youthful offender has been sentenced to transportation Or imprisonment, the State Government may direct that in lieu of undergoing or completing such sentence he shall, if under the age of sixteen years, be sent to an approved school, and thereupon the offender shall be subject to all the provisions of this Act as if he had been originally ordered to be detained in such school."
 This question was not raised earlier so that the Trial Court or the High Court may take the action it was open to the Courts to take after due inquiry.


Case id : 4227

Case id : 4136

Case id : 4236

Case id : 4189

Case id : 4269

Case id : 4143
STA : Sub-section (1) says that an assessee may "at any stage of a case relating to him" make an application in the prescribed form and manner, "containing a full and true disclosure of his income which has not been disclosed before the Assessing Officer, the manner in which such income has been derived, the additional amount of income tax payable on such income and such other particulars as may be prescribed" to settle his case.


Case id : 4272
STA : 
 Section 37, to the extent material, is as under: "37. General. - (1) Any expenditure (not being expenditure of the nature described in sections 30 to 36 and not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee), laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business or profession shall be allowed in computing the income chargeable under the head "Profits and gains of business or profession".
 (2) Notwithstanding  anything contained in sub-section (1), no expenditure in the nature of entertainment expenditure shall be allowed in the case of a company, which exceeds the aggregate amount computed as hereunder:- *

STA : **                  **

STA : *  ***

STA : *(2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub- section (2), no allowance shall be made in respect of so much of the expenditure in the nature of entertainment expenditure incurred by an assessee during any previous year which expires after the 30th day of September, 1967, as is in excess of the aggregate amount computed as hereunder:- *

STA : **                  ***             **

STA : * Explanation 1.-.........

STA : ***Explanation 2. -For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for the purposes of this sub-section and sub-section (2B), as it stood before the 1st day of April, 1977, "entertainment expenditure" includes expenditure on provision of hospitality of every kind by the assessee to any person, whether by way of provision of food or beverages or in any other manner whatsoever and whether or not such provision is made by reason of any express or implied contract or custom or usage of trade, but does not include expenditure on food or beverages provided by the assessee to his employees in office, factory or other place of their work.

STA : 
 **(2B) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, no allowance shall be made in respect of expenditure in the nature of entertainment expenditure incurred within India by any assessee after the 28th day of February, 1970."
 (emphasis supplied) * Sub

STA : -section (2A) was inserted w.e.f.
 1st October, 1967 by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1967.

STA : ** Sub-section (2B) was inserted w.e.f.
 1st April, 1970 by the Finance Act, 1970.

STA : *** Explanation 2 was inserted by the Finance Act, 1983 retrospectively w.e.f.
 1.4.1976.
 

STA : In Sampath Iyengar's Law of Income Tax, 8th Ed., vol.
 2, reference is made to circular No. 372 dated December, 8, 1983 of the Board, (1984) 146 ITR st 31, wherein the scope and effect of the above amendments was explained as under:- "Provision     for  curbing avoidable or ostentatious expenditure in business or profession- Section 37 - 30.
 Section 37 of the Income-tax Act

STA : provides for deduction in the computation of taxable profits of any expenditure other than expenditure of the nature described in sections 30 to 36 and section 80VV, or expenditure in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee, laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business or profession carried on by the taxpayer.

STA : Sub-section (2A) was inserted w.e.f. 1st October, 1967 by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1967 and Explanation 2 inserted therein by Finance Act, 1983 retrospectively w.e.f.
 1.4.1976 while sub-section (2B) was inserted w.e.f. 1st April, 1970 by the Finance Act, 1970.


Case id : 4145

Case id : 4166

Case id : 4171

Case id : 4271

Case id : 4222

Case id : 4200

Case id : 4214

Case id : 4198
STA : 
In coming to the above conclusion we have not been unmindful of the provisions of s. 133 of the Evidence Act which reads- :- s. 133 "An accomplice shall be a competent witness against an accused person; and a conviction is not illegal merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice".

STA : This rule of guidance is to be found in illustration (b) to s. 114 of the Evidence which is as follows :- "The court may presume that an accomplice is unworthy of credit unless he is corroborated in material particulars".


Case id : 4120

Case id : 4174
STA : As the offence under Section 300 defines the murder and section 302 provides for punishment, it is necessary to mention both the sections.

STA : 
 "300. Murder  Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is murder, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of cause death, or

STA : Secondly  

STA : If it is done with the intention of causing such bodily injury as the offender knows to be likely to cause the death of the person to whom the harm is caused, or  Thirdly  If it is done with the intention of causing bodily injury to any person and the bodily injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, or  Fourthly  If the person committing the act knows that it is so imminently dangerous that it must, in all probability, cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.
 302. Punishment for murder  

STA : Whoever commits murder shall be punished with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine."
 51.


Case id : 4238

Case id : 4117

Case id : 4252
STA : 
 Section 135(1) (b), under which the appellant has been convicted, runs thus :- "135(1) Without prejudice to any action that may be taken under this Act, if any person- (b) acquires possession of or is in any way concerned in carrying, removing, depositing, harbouring, keeping, concealing, selling or purchasing or in any other manner dealing with any goods which he knows or has reason to believe are liable to confiscation under section 111."
         Analysing the essential ingredients of clause (b), it is manifest that before a conviction can be recorded under it, the prosecution must prove that the accused has acquired possession of or is in any way concerned in depositing, keeping, etc., any goods which he knows or has reason to believe are liable to confiscation under s. 111.


Case id : 4239

Case id : 4284

Case id : 4202

Case id : 4086
STA : In this context, it is pertinent to reflect the Explanation appended to Sec. 53 of the Odisha Excise Act, 2008 , which provides as follows: Explanation- " Trained Excise Officer" shall mean an officer who has under gone distillery training and obtained a certificate from the concerned Superintendent of Excise.


Case id : 4188

Case id : 4210

Case id : 4093
STA : As is well known, Section 115JB of the Act, pertains to special provisions for payment of tax by certain companies and provides a formula for payment of minimum tax in case of companies, whose tax payable on the total income works out to be below a certain minimum threshhold percentage of its book profit.

STA : This provision is a successor to Section 115JA of the Act, which was also introduced for the same purpose.

STA : In the present form, post amendment by Finance Act, 2012, relevant portion of Section 115JB of the Act reads as under: "Special provision for payment of tax by certain companies.

STA : 115JB.

STA : (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this payable on the total income as computed under this Act in respect of any previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on or after the 1st day of April, (2012), is less than (eighteen and onehalf percent) of its book profit, (such book profit shall be deemed to be the total income of the assessee and the tax payable by the assessee on such total income shall be the amount of incometax at the rate of (eighteen and onehalf percent).
(2) Every assessee, (a) being a company, other than a company referred to in clause (b), shall, for the purposes of this section, prepare its (statement of profit and loss) for the relevant previous year in accordance with the provisions of (Schedule III) to the (Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013); or (b) being a company, to which the (second proviso to subsection (1) of section 129) of the (Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) is applicable, shall, for the purposes of this section, prepare its (statement of profit and loss) for the relevant previous year in accordance with the provisions of the Act governing such company:) Provided that while preparing the annual accounts including (statement of profit and loss), (i) the accounting policies; (ii) the accounting standards adopted for preparing such accounts including (statement of profit and loss); (iii) the method and rates adopted for calculating the depreciation

STA : , shall be the same as have been adopted for the purpose of preparing such accounts including (statement of profit and loss) and laid before the company at its annual general meeting in accordance with the provisions of (section 129) of the (Companies Act, 2013(18 of 2013)):"
 15.

STA : As per section 115JB, every company is required to prepare its accounts as per Schedule VI of the Companies Act, 1956.

STA : 
 19. Before closing, we may also take note of explanation (3) below subsection (2) of section 115 JB of the Act which reads as under : "Explanation 3For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that for the purposes of this section, the assessee, being a company to which the proviso to subsection (2) of section 211 of the Companies Act, 1956(1 of 1956) is applicable, has, for an assessment year commencing on or before the 1st day of April, 2012, an option to prepare its profit and loss account for the relevant previous year either in accordance with the provisions of Part II and Part III of Schedule VI to the Companies Act, 1956 or in accordance with the provisions of the Act governing such company."
 20.


Case id : 4155
STA : 
It is evident that the decision of the Tribunal was quite correct, and the Tribunal had no option but to dismiss the application, since the law gives no jurisdiction to the Tribunal to extend limitation, as is done under s. 5 of the Indian Limitation Act.


Case id : 4122

Case id : 4150
STA : The relevant part of sec. 151 of the Act reads as follows "151. Sanction for issue of notice.-(I) No notice shall be issued under section 148 after the expiry of eight years from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the Board is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Income-tax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice.
 (2)             x                 x  x"
 Section 4(1) of the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 provides "The Central Government may make rules for the purposes of regulating the transaction of business by each Board and every order made or act done in accordance with such rules shall be deemed to be the order or act, as the case may be, of the Board."

STA : "Board" as defined in sec. 2 of this Act means the Central Board of Direct Taxes or the Central Board of Excise and Customs.

STA : Rule 4 of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (Regulations of Transaction of Busi- ness) Rules, 1964 is in these terms : "The Chairman may, by an order made with the previous approval of the Central Government, distribute the business of the Board among himself and the other Members and specify the cases or class of cases which shall be con- sidered jointly by the Board."
 

STA : 
                         4. Rule 4 of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (Regulation of Transaction of Business) Rules, 1964

STA : envisaged that Chairman may by an order made with the previous approval of the Central Government distribute the business of the Board among himself and the other members.


Case id : 4096

Case id : 4132

Case id : 4130

Case id : 4240

Case id : 4279

Case id : 4159
STA : Section 41 (1) Act envisages that where the assessee has obtained some benefit in respect of a trading liability by way of remission or cessation thereof, the amount obtained by the assessee or the value of benefit accruing to him shall be deemed to be profits and gains of business for that year in which such remission or cessation occurs and would accordingly be chargeable to income tax as the income of that relevant previous year.


Case id : 4073

Case id : 4146

Case id : 4260

Case id : 4069
STA : It is not possible to exclude co- operative society engaged in the business of banking from the provisions of sec.
194A(3)(v) of the Act on the ground that the same is covered by the provisions of sec.
194A(3)(i)(b) of the Act. Sec.194A(3)(v) of the Act refers to payment by a co-operative society to a member and payment by a co- operative society to non-member continue to be governed by the provisions of Sec.194A(3)(i)(b) of the Act.

STA : Clause (V) of Sub Section (3) of Section.194A exempts such income credited or paid by a co-operative society to a member thereof from the requirement of TDS.

STA : On the other hand, clause(viia) of Sub Section(3) of Section 194A exempts from the requirement of TDS such income credited or paid in respect of deposits (other than time-deposits made on or after 1st July, 1995) with a co- operative society engaged in carrying on the business of banking.


Case id : 4185
STA : Section 2(b) of the Act defines " contract " as including " any agreement for carrying out for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration the construction, fitting out, improvement or repair of any building, road, bridge or other immovable property or the installation or repair of any machineryaffixed to a building or other immovable property ".

STA : Section 2(c) of the Act defines " dealer " as including a person who carries on the business of supplying goods.

STA : In s. 2 (d), "
goods " are defined as including " all materials, articles and commodities whether or not to be used in the construction, fitting out, improvement or repair of immovable property ".

STA : Section 2(g) defines sale " as follows: " " Sale " with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means any transfer of property in goods for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration, including a transfer of property in goods made in course of the execution of a contract, but does not include a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge; and the word 'purchase' shall be construed accordingly.

STA : "
Section 2(h) defines " sale price " as including the amount payable to a dealer as valuable consideration for the carrying out of any contract, less such portion, representing the proportion of the cost of labour to the cost of materials, used in carrying out such contract, as may be prescribed.

STA : " Turnover " is defined in s. 2(j) as including the aggregate amount of the sale price received or receivable by a dealer in respect of the supply of goods in the carrying out of any contract.

STA : The charging section is s. 4(a), and it provides that dealers whose turnover exceeded certain limits shall be liable to pay tax in accordance with the provisions of the Act on all sales effected after the commencement of the Act.

STA : Rule 4 of the Sales Tax Rules, 1947, provides that " in calculating the sale price for the purpose of sub-cl. (ii) of cl. (h) of s.
2, a dealer may be permitted to deduct from the amounts payable to him as valuable consideration for carrying out a contract, a sum not exceeding such percentages as may be fixed by the Commissioner for different areas subject to the following maximum percentages ", and then follows a scale of percentages to be allowed in respect of different classes of contracts.

STA : . To appreciate this contention, it is necessary to refer to s. 6 of the Act, which is as follows: 6 (1) " No tax shall be payable under this Act on the sale of goods specified in the second column of Schedule 11, subject to the conditions and exceptions, if any, set out in the corresponding entry in the third column thereof.

STA : 
(2) The State Government may, after giving by notification not less than one month's notice of their intention so to do, by a notification after the expiry of the period of notice mentioned in the first notification amend either Schedule, and thereupon such Schedule shall be deemed to be amended accordingly."


Case id : 4199

Case id : 4106

Case id : 4113
STA : 
 9. Right to life and liberty is a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21 of the constitution.

STA : No person shall be deprived of his life and personal liberty except according to the procedure established by law.


Case id : 4098

Case id : 4241
STA : Section 66 of the Income-tax Act which confers jurisdiction upon the High Court only permits a reference of a question of law arising out of the order of the Tribunal.


Case id : 4116
STA : Section 25 of the Evidence Act provides that no confession made to a police officer shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence.

STA : 
Section 26 provides that no confession made by any person while he is under custody of the police officer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of a magistrate, shall be proved as against such person.


Case id : 4283
STA : Section 6 of the Act deals specifically with persons under twenty- one years of age convicted by a court for an offence punishable with imprisonment other than imprisonment for life.

STA : In this respect the Court further held that "we find that sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Probation of Offenders Act contains the words "notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force".

STA : In view of the above, it is necessary to extract Section 32.
 Section 32 of Karnataka Excise Act reads as under; "32. Penalty for illegal import, etc.- (1) Whoever, in contravention of this Act, or any rule, notification or order, made, issued or given thereunder, or of any licence or permit granted under this Act, imports, exports, transports, manufactures, collects or possesses any intoxicant, shall, on conviction, 1[be punished for each offence with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to 2[five years and with fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.]]

STA : 1[Provided that the punishment,- (i) for the first offence shall be not less than 2[one year rigorous imprisonment and fine of not less than ten thousand rupees]2; and (ii) for the second and subsequent offences shall be not less than 2[two years rigorous imprisonment and fine of not less than twenty thousand rupees] for each such offence."
 14. Section 34 of Karnataka Excise Act reads as under; 34. Penalty for illegal possession.-

STA : Whoever, without lawful authority has in his possession any quantity of any intoxicant knowing the same to have been unlawfully imported, transported, manufactured, cultivated or collected, or knowing the prescribed duty not to have been paid thereon, shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 2[four years and with fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.]

STA : 3[Provided that the punishment,- (i) for the first offence shall be not less than 4[one year imprisonment and fine of rupees ten thousand]; and (ii) for the second and subsequent offences shall be not less than imprisonment for 5[two years and fine of not less than rupees twenty thousand], for each such offence: Provided further that the fine inflicted, shall not be less than four times the amount of duty leviable on such intoxicant.] 15.

STA : On going through the provisions stated above, the legislature has prescribed the punishment for an offence under the Section 32 as imprisonment for a term which extend to five years and fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.

STA : The proviso (1) reads that for the first offence shall be not less than one year rigorous imprisonment and fine of not less than Rs.10,000/-.

STA : So also under Section 34 , the proviso (i) for the first offence shall be not less than one year imprisonment and fine of Rs.10,000/-.


Case id : 4231

Case id : 4265
STA : These read thus: S. 16(2)-For the purposes of inclusion in the total income of an assessee any dividend &hall be deemed to be income of the previous year in which it is paid, credited or distributed or deemed to have been paid, credited or distributed to him, and shall be increased to such amount as would, if income tax (but not supertax) at the rate applicable to the total income of the company (without taking into account any rebate allowed or additional income-tax charged) for the financial year in which the dividend is paid, credited or distributed or deemed to have been paid, credited or distributed, were deducted therefrom, be equal to the amount of the dividend: Provided that when the sum out of which the dividend has been paid, credited or distributed or deemed to have been paid, credited or distributed includes- (i) any profits and gains of the company not included in its total income, or                         (ii) any income of the company on which income-tax was not payable, or (iii) any amount attributable to any allowance made in computing the profits and gains of the company, the increase to be made under this section shall be calculated only upon such proportion of the dividend as the said sum after deduction of the inclusions enumerated above bears to the whole of that sum.
                         S. 18(5)-Any deduction made and paid to the account of the Central Government in accord- ance with the provisions of this section and any sum by which a dividend has been increased under sub-section (2) of section 16 shall be treated as a payment of income-tax or supertax on behalf of the person from whose income the deduction was made, or of the owner of the security or of the shareholder, as the case may be, and credit shall be given to him therefor on the production of the certificate furnished under sub-section (9) or section 20, as the case may be, in the assessment, if any, made for the following year under this Act: Provided........
                         S. 60A. Power to make exemption, etc., in relation to merged territories or to the territories which immediately before the 1st November, 1956. were comprised in any Part B State.

STA : 
If the Central Government considers it necessary or expedient so to do for avoiding any hardship or anomaly, or removing any difficulty, that may arise as a result of the extension of this Act to the merged territories or to the territories which immediately before the 1st November. 1956, were comprised in any Part B State, the Central Government may , by general or special order, make an exemption, reduction in rate or other modification in respect of Income-tax in favour of any class of income, or in regardto the whole or any part of the income of any person or class of persons: Provided that the power conferred by this section shall not be exercisable in the case of merged territories and the territories which immediately before the 1st November.
1956, were comprised in Part B States other than the State of Jammu and Kashmir, after the 31st day of March, 1955, and, in the case. of the State of 'Jammu and Kashmir ,after the 31st day of March, 1959, .except for the purpose of rescinding an exemption, reduction or modification already made.
Para 3(iii) of the Concession Order---The expression "Indian rate of tax" means the rate determined by dividing the amount of i,come-tax and super-tax payable in the taxable territories on the total income for the year in question in accordance, with the rates prescribed by the relevant Finance Act of the Central Government, by the amount of such total income.
Para 3(v) of the Concession Order--The expression 'State rate of tax' means the rate determined by dividing the amount of income-tax and supertax and payable on the total income according to the rates of tax in force in the State immediately before the appointed .day, or for the year in question, as the case may be, by the amount of such total income and where under any State law, the' rates of tax in force in the State are prescribed with reference to the total income including agricultural income

STA : , the State rate of tax shall be.

STA : the rate determined by dividing the amount of income-tax and supertax on the total income including the agricultural income without taking into account any reduction of tax allowed on the agricultural income by the State' law by the amount of such total 'income; Explanation.

STA : Where there was no State law relating to charge of income-tax.and super-tax therates of income-tax and super-tax in force in that State immediately before the appointed day shall, for the purposes of this clause, be deemed to be the rates specified in the Schedule.

STA : 
Para 6 of the Concession Order Income of a previous year which does not fall under paragraph 5.


Case id : 4258

Case id : 4160
STA : 
         According to Section 84 of the Act, income tax is not payable by an assessee on so much of the profits and gains, inter alia, derived from any industrial undertaking to which the Section applies, as does not exceed 6% per annum on the capital employed in such undertaking.

STA : Sub-section (2) of Section 84 provides the conditions which should be specified so as to enable the assessee to enjoy the benefit of the said provision.

STA : It is not in dispute that these conditions are satisfied but what we are concerned in this case is with regard to the applicability of sub-section (7) of Section 84 of the Act which reads as follows: "The provisions of this section shall, in relation to an industrial undertaking, apply to the assessment-- (i) for the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which the undertaking begins to manufacture or produce articles or, as the case may be, operate the cold storage plant or plants, and (ii) where the assesee is a co-operative society, for the six assessment years immediately succeeding, and where the assessee is any other person, for the four assessment years immediately succeeding."
         


Case id : 4134
STA : Both Sections 299 and 300 deal with instances in which death is caused by an act with the intention of causing such bodily injury as the offender knows to be likely to cause death of the person to whom injury is inflicted.

STA : These provisions also deal with cases where there is no intention of either causing death or a bodily injury which is ordinarily sufficient to cause death.

STA : The absence of intention to cause death or bodily injury which is in the ordinary course of nature likely to cause death is, therefore, not conclusive.

STA : What is required to be seen is whether the act is one where the offender must be deemed to have had the knowledge that he was likely, by such act, to cause death.


Case id : 4084
STA : Section 7-A of the Act of 2000 reads as under :- "7-A. Procedure to be followed when claim of juvenility is raised before any Court.

STA : -- (1)  Whenever a claim of juvenility is raised before any Court or a Court is of the opinion that an accused person was a juvenile on the date of commission of the offence, the Court shall make an inquiry, take such evidence as may be necessary (but not an affidavit) so as to determine the age of such person, and shall record a finding whether the person is juvenile or a child or not, stating his age as nearly as may be; Provided that a claim of juvenility may be raised before any Court and it shall be recognized at any stage, even after final disposal of the case, and such claim shall be determined in terms of the provisions  contained in this Act and the rules made thereunder, even if the juvenile has ceased to be so on or before the date of commencement of this Act.
 (2)             If the Court finds a person to be a juvenile on the date of commission of the offence under sub-section (1), it shall forward the juvenile to the Board for passing appropriate order, and the sentence, if any, passed by a Court shall be deemed to have no effect.

STA : Rule 12 of the Rules of 2007 reads as under :- "12. Procedure to be followed in determination of age :-- (1)             

STA : In every case concerning a child or a juvenile in conflict with law, the Court or the Board, as the case may be, the Committee referred to in rule 19 of these rules shall determine the age of such juvenile or child or a juvenile in conflict with law within a period of thirty days from the date of making of the application for that purpose.

STA : 
 (2)             The Court or the Board or, as the case may be, the Committee shall decide the juvenility or otherwise of the juvenile or the child or, as the case may be, the juvenile in conflict with law, prima facie on the basis of physical appearances or documents, if available, and send him to the observation home or in jail.
 (3)  In every case concerning a child or juvenile in conflict with law, the age determination inquiry shall be conducted by the Court or the Board or, as the case may be, the Committee by seeking evidence by obtaining -- (a) (i) the matriculation or equivalent certificates, if available; and in the absence whereof; (ii) the date of birth certificate from the school (other than a play school) first attended; and in the absence whereof; (iii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal authority or a panchayat; (b) and only in the absence of either (i), (ii) or (iii) of clause (a) above, the medical opinion will be sought from a duly constituted Medical Board, which will declare the age of the juvenile or child.

STA : In case exact assessment of the age cannot be done, the Court or the Board or, as the case may be, the Committee, for the reasons to be recorded by them, may, if considered necessary, give benefit to the child or juvenile by considering his/her age on lower side within the margin of one year, and, while passing orders in such case shall, after taking into consideration such evidence as may be available, or the medical opinion, as the case may be, record a finding in respect of his age and either of the evidence specified in any of the clauses (a) (i), (ii), (iii) or in the absence whereof, clause (b) shall be the conclusive proof of the age as regards such child or the juvenile in conflict with law.

STA : 
 (4)  If the age of a juvenile or child or the juvenile in conflict with law is found to be below 18 years on the date of offence, on the basis of any of the conclusive proof specified in sub-rule (3), the Court or the Board or, as the case may be, the Committee shall in writing pass an order stating the age and declaring the status of juvenility or otherwise, for the purpose of the Act and these rules and a copy of the order shall be given to such juvenile or the person concerned.
 (5)  Save and except where, further inquiry or otherwise is required, inter alia, in terms of section 7-A, section 64 of the Act and these rules, no further inquiry shall be conducted by the Court or the Board after examining and obtaining the certificate or any other documentary proof referred to in sub-rule (3) of this rule.

STA : 
 (6)  The provisions contained in this rule shall also apply to those disposed off cases, where the status of juvenility has not been determined in accordance with the provisions contained in sub-rule (3) and the Act, requiring dispensation of the sentence under the Act for passing appropriate order in the interest of the juvenile in conflict with law.

STA : "
 8  We find it necessary here itself to refer to Section 6 of the Act of 2000, which refers to powers of Juvenile Justice Board and Section 6 reads as under :- " 6. Powers of Juvenile Justice Board :-- (1)  Where a Board has been constituted for any district, such Board shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force but save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, have power to deal exclusively with all proceedings under this Act relating to juvenile in conflict with law.

STA : 
 (2)  The powers conferred on the Board by or under this Act may also be exercised by the High Court and the Court of Session, when the proceeding comes before them in appeal, revision or otherwise.

STA : "
 9  The above referred Section 7-A of the Act of 2000 contemplates that wherever claim of juvenility is raised before any court, the court shall make an inquiry so as to determine the age of such person and hence, by our order dated 5.8.2009, directions were issued by us to the concerned officers to take steps to produce original record concerning the date of birth of the petitioner, like original birth certificate, original school leaving certificate from Jamhoor Urdu Primary School, Udgir, District Latur.


Case id : 13643
STA : 
-Section 227 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 2 of 1974, provides that: "If, upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents submitted there- with, and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the prosecution in this be- half, the Judge considers that there is not sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused, he shall discharge the accused and record his reasons for so doing."

STA : 
Section 482 of the New Code, which corresponds to s. 561-A of the Code of 1898, provides that: "Nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or affect the inherent powers of the High Court to make such orders as may be necessary to give effect to any order under this Code or to prevent abuse of the process of any Court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice."


Case id : 4105
STA : 
16. Section-300 IPC defines `murder' speaks that when the culpable homicide is committed with intention to causing death(clause-firstly) or with the intention of causing such bodily injury which the offence knows is likely to cause death of the person to whom the harm is caused (clause-secondly) or if it is done with the intention of causing bodily injuries which is intentionally inflicted and such bodily injury is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death of the deceased (clause thirdly) or the offender committed culpable homicide by an act which he knows that it is imminently so dangerous that in all probability such act is likely to cause death of the deceased or likely to cause any injury as is likely to cause death without any excuse for causing the death or such bodily injury (clause fourthly) the same amounts to murder.

STA : But such culpable homicide shall not amount to murder if the same is done in any of the circumstances provided in the exception to Section- 300 of IPC.

STA : Culpable homicide caused in the circumstances mentioned in clause-Istly to Clause-3rdly to Section- 300 of IPC if covered by any of the five exceptions there in the said section the same would attract the ingredients of charge u/s. 304, Part-I of IPC, but when caused in the circumstances provided in Clause-4thly by Section- 300 of IPC and covered by any of the five exceptions, the same would attract the ingredients of Section- 304, Part-II of IPC.
17.


Case id : 4112
STA : 
Section 118 of Negotiable Instruments Act envisages that: "Presumptions as to negotiable instruments.- Until the contrary is proved, the following presumptions shall be made:- (a) of consideration.- that every negotiable instrument was made or drawn for consideration, and that every such instrument, when it has been accepted, indorsed, negotiated or transferred, was 14 accepted, indorsed, negotiated or transferred, for consideration; (b) as to date.- that every negotiable instrument bearing a date was made or drawn on such date; (c) as to time of acceptance.- that every accepted bill of exchange was accepted within a reasonable time after its date and before its maturity; (d) as to time of transfer.- that every transfer of a negotiable instrument was made before its maturity; (e) as to order of indorsement.- that the indorsements appearing upon a negotiable instrument were made in the order in which they appear thereon; (f) as to stamps.- that a lost promissory note, bill or exchange or cheque was duly stamped; (g) that holder is a holder in due course.- that the holder of a negotiable instrument is a holder in due course: provided that, where the instrument has been obtained from its lawful owner, or from any person in lawful custody thereof, by means of an offence or fraud, or has been obtained from the maker or acceptor thereof by means of an offence or fraud, or for unlawful consideration, the burden of proving that the holder is a holder in due course lies upon him."
 25.


Case id : 4219

Case id : 4230

Case id : 4263

Case id : 4217

Case id : 4169

Case id : 4262
STA : 
Section 25(3), on the true interpretation of which the respective contentions of the assessee and the Commissioner have to be adjudged, is in the following terms: "Where any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1918 (VII of 1918), is discontinued, then, unless there has been a succession by virtue of which the provisions of sub-section (4) have been rendered applicable, no tax shall be payable in respect of the income, profits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such discontinuance, and the assessee may further claim that the income, profits and gains of the previous year shall be deemed to have been the income, profits and gains of the said period.

STA : Where any such claim is made, an assessment shall be made on the basis of the income, profits and gains of the said period, and if an amount of tax has already been paid in respect of the income, profits and gains of the previous year exceeding the amount payable on the basis of such assessment, a refund shall be given of the difference."


Case id : 4261

Case id : 4278
STA : Accordingly, they should impress upon the Tribunal or the Court that such cases do not have any precedent value and also bring to The Commissioner of Income-Tax & Anr.
                                                                                                                     vs.
 M/s.Luwa India Pvt. Ltd.
 17/22 the notice of the Tribunal/ Court the provisions of sub section (4) of section 268A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 which read as under : "(4) The Appellate Tribunal or Court, hearing such appeal or reference, shall have regard to the orders, instructions or directions issued under sub-section (1) and the circumstances under which such appeal or application for reference was filed or not filed in respect of any case."


Case id : 4206
STA : Section 3 of the State Act is the charging section which reads as under:- 3. (1) There shall be levied and collected a tax on the lottery schemes specified in column (2) of the Table hereunder, at the rates specified against them in column (3) of the said Table:- TABLE No

STA : .                 Lottery Schemes       Rate of Tax 1 2                     3 1 2  

STA : Weekly lottery scheme            50,000 3  Fortnightly lottery scheme or any 1,00,000 4  lottery scheme between week and fortnight Monthly lottery scheme or any    2,00,000 lottery scheme of any duration exceeding fortnight Bumper lottery scheme

STA :            10,00,000 (2) The tax levied under sub-section (1) shall be paid by the Promoter.

STA : Though the term scheme has not been defined in the Act, the term lottery has been defined by Section 2(d) of the Act which reads as under:- 2.

STA : In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires- (d) lottery means a scheme, in whatever form and by whatever name called, for distribution of prizes by lot or chances to those persons participating in the chances of a prize, by purchasing tickets, conducted as per the provisions of the Lotteries (Regulation) Act,1998.

STA : The term Promoter is defined under sub-section (f) of Section 2 of the Act, which reads as under:- 2(f) Promoter means the Government of any State or an Union Territory or any country organizing, conducting or promoting a lottery and includes any person appointed as first importer for marketing lottery tickets in the State of Maharashtra on behalf of such Government or country where such Government or country is not directly marketing or conducting lottery schemes in the State.

STA : Entry 40 in List I of the Seventh Schedule reads as under:- 40.

STA : Lotteries organised by the Government of India or the Government of a State.

STA : And others referred to above, they read as under:- 100.

STA : Article 265 mandates  no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.


Case id : 4075
STA : Subsection (1) of s. 6, on a plain grammatical reading of its language, provides that when any person under twenty-one years age is found guilty of having committed an offence punishable with imprisonment, but not with imprisonment for life, the Court, by which the person is found guilty, shall not impose any sentence of imprisonment, unless it is satisfied that, having regard to the circumstances of the case, including the nature of the offence and the character of the offender it would not be desirable to deal with himhim under s. 3 or s. 4.


Case id : 4138

Case id : 4071
STA : Section 44 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, as it stood at the relevant date, in so far as it is material provided : "Where any business, profession or vocation carried on by a firm has been discontinued every person who was at the time of such discontinuance a partner of such firm shall, in respect of the income, profits and gains of the firm be jointly and severally liable to assessment under Chapter IV and for the amount of tax payable and all the provisions of Chapter IV shall, so far as may be, apply to any such assessment".

STA : Section 25(1) relates to assessment in cases of a discontinued business-whether the business is carried on by a firm or by any other person...........

STA : Then there is the special provision relating to assessment when at the time of making an assessment it is found that a change has occurred in the constitution of a firm, or a firm has been newly constituted : section 26(1).


Case id : 4154

Case id : 4175

Case id : 4119

Case id : 4181

Case id : 4092
STA : The learned Judges referred to the provision of s. 2 (6-B) of the Income-tax Act, where it is provided: " "Partner" includes any person who being a minor has been admitted to the benefits of partnership;", and observed that in view of this definition and the fact that a minor could be admitted to the benefits of partnership under s. 30, the document was not invalid, but must be read as giving to the minor the rights laid down by the Partnership Act.

STA : 
Section 30 of the Indian Partnership Act clearly lays down that a minor cannot become a partner, though with the consent of the adult partners, he may be admitted to the benefits of partnership.


Case id : 4125
STA : Section 28(1) of the Act (in so far as it is material to these appeals) provides : "If the Income-tax Officer x            x x  x            x       x in the course of any proceedings under this Act is satisfied that any person- (a) has without reasonable cause failed to furnish the return of his total income which he was required to furnish by notice given under sub- section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 22 or section 34 or has without reasonable cause failed to furnish it within the time allowed and in the manner required by such notice, or (b) has without reasonable cause failed to comply with a notice under subsection (4) of section 22 or sub- section (2) of section 23, or (c) has concealed the particulars of his income or deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars of such income, he or it may direct that such persons shall by way of penalty, in the case referred to in clause (a), in addition to the amount of the income-tax and super-tax, if any, payable by him, a sum not exceeding one and a half times that amount, and in the cases referred to in clauses (b) and (c), in addition to any tax- payable by him, a sum not exceeding one and a half times the amount of the income-tax and super-tax, if any, which would have been avoided if the income as returned by such person had been accepted as the correct income".

STA : The expression "person" is defined in s. 2(a) of the Act as including "a Hindu undivided family and a local authority".

STA : That evidently is not an exhaustive definition and recourse is permissible to the General Clauses Act which says in s. 3(42) that a "person" includes "any company or association or body of individuals whether incorporated or not."

STA : A firm is manifestly a body of individuals and would therefore fall within the definition of "person", and may be exposed to an order for payment of penalty in the circumstances set out in cls. (a), (b) and (c) of s. 28 of the Income-tax Act.

STA : That a firm, registered or unregistered, may be liable to pay penalty has been further clarified by proviso (d) which declares the quantum of penalty payable by firms, registered as well as unregistered.

STA : By s. 23(5), income-tax not being made payable by the firm but by the individual partners of a registered firm the legislative intention was not clearly expressed.


Case id : 4090
STA : 
It will be pertinent to mention here Section 132 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 which lays down that: "A witness shall not be excused from answering any question as to any matter relevant to the matter in issue in any suit or in any civil or criminal proceedings, upon the ground that the answer to such question will criminate, or may tend directly or indirectly to criminate, such witness, or that it will expose, or tend directly or indirectly to expose, such witness to a penalty or forfeiture of any kind.

STA : Proviso-

STA : Provided that no such answer, which a witness shall be compelled to give, shall subject him to any arrest or prosecution, or be against him in any criminal proceeding, except a prosecution for giving false evidence by such answer.


Case id : 1711
STA : Section 195(1) (b) and (c) of the Criminal Procedure Code prohibit any Court from taking cognizance of either of these two offences except on the complaint in writing of the Court concerned "or of some other Court to which such Court is subordinate".
 

STA : Section 476-A states that when the Court in which the offence is said to have been committed neither makes a complaint nor rejects an application for the making of a complaint, "the Court to which such former Court is subordinate within the meaning of section 195, sub-section (3)" may take action under section 476.
 Section 476 authorises the appropriate Court, after recording a finding that it is expedient in the interests of justice, etc., to, among other things, make a complaint in writing and forward it to a Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction.

STA : Section 195(3) states that- "For the purposes of this section, a Court shall be deemed to be subordinate to the Court to which appeals ordinarily lie from the appealable decrees or sentences of such former Court, or in the case of a Civil Court from whose decrees no appeal ordinarily lies to the principal court having ordinary original civil jurisdiction within the local limits of whose jurisdiction such Civil Court is situate" and then follows this proviso- "Provided that- (a)where appeals lie to more than one Court, the Appellate Court of inferior jurisdiction shall be the Court to which such Court shall be deemed to be subordinate; and 130 (b) where appeals lie to a Civil and also to a Revenue Court, such Court shall be deemed to be subordinate to the Civil or Revenue Court according to the nature of the case or proceeding in connection with which the offence is alleged to have been committed".
 

STA : Apart from the Courts of Small Causes and Courts established under other enactments, the Punjab Courts Act, 1918 makes provision for three classes of Civil Courts, namely- (1) the Court of the District Judge, (2) the Court of the Additional Judge, and (3) the Court of the Subordinate Judge.
 At the moment we are concerned with the Subordinate Judge.
Section 22 enables the State Government to fix the number of Subordinate Judges after consultation with the High Court.
The local limit of jurisdiction of each of these Judges is the district in which he is appointed unless the High Court defines a different limit (section 27).

STA : The pecuniary limits are set out in section 26: "The jurisdiction to be exercised in civil suits as regards the value by any person appointed to be a Subordinate Judge shall be determined by the High Court either by including him in a class or otherwise as it thinks fit".
 

STA : They are governed by section 39.

STA : In the absence of any other enactment for the time being in force, when the value of the suit does not exceed five thousand rupees the appeal lies to the District Judge, and in every other suit, to the High Court.

STA : But by sub-section (3) the High Court is empowered to direct by notification "that appeals lying to the District Court from all or any of the decrees or orders passed in an original suit by any Subordinate Judge shall be preferred to such other 'Subordinate Judge as may be mentioned in the notification"
and when that is done "such other Subordinate Judge shall be deemed to be a District Court for the purposes of all appeals so preferred".
 

STA : The High Court availed itself of this provision and provided that appeals lying to the District Courts from decrees or orders passed by any Subordinate Judge in two classes of case which are specified "shall be preferred to the Senior Subordinate Judge of the first class exercising jurisdiction within such Civil District".
 

STA : 
 It would, however, be wrong to say that the nature of the proceedings in the case must be wholly ignored because sub- clause (b) to the proviso to sub-section (3) states that "where appeals lie to a Civil and also to a Revenue Court, such.

STA : Court shall be deemed to be subordinate to the Civil or Revenue Court according to the nature of the case or proceeding".

STA : 
Accordingly, we confine ourselves to the Punjab Act (Act VI of 1918).
 Section 18 of the Punjab Courts Act

STA : states that there shall be the following classes of Courts, namely "................................................
(3) the Court of the Subordinate Judge".
Section 22 provides that "the State Government may........ fix the number of Subordinate Judges to be appointed".

STA : 
Section 26, which has already been quoted, fixes the pecuniary limits of their jurisdiction.

STA : Then comes section 27 defining the local limits of their jurisdiction: "(1) The local limits of the jurisdiction of a Subordinate Judge shall be such as the High Court may define.
 (2) When the High Court posts a Subordinate Judge to a district, the local limits of the district shall, in the absence of any direction to the contrary, be deemed to be the local limits of his jurisdiction".

STA : It is High Court Notification No. 4 dated 3-1-1923.

STA : It makes four classes of Subordinate Judges with effect from 5-1-1923 "in respect of the jurisdiction to be exercised by them in original suits, namely:- Class I-Subordinate Judges exercising juris- 135 diction without limit as to the value of the cases; Class II-Subordinate Judges exercising jurisdiction in cases of which the value does not exceed Rs. 5.000; Class III-Subordinate Judges exercising jurisdiction in cases of which the value does not exceed Rs. 2,000; Class IV-Subordinate Judges exercising jurisdiction in cases of which the value does not exceed Rs. 1,000.

STA : 
When a Subordinate Judge is appointed to any of the classes constituted by this Notification, he shall exercise the jurisdiction here in before defined for the class to which he is appointed within the local limits of the civil district to which he may be posted from time to time".
 

STA : 
 The third view is that each Subordinate Judge is a separate and independent Court in himself and it is pointed out that section 27 invests each Judge personally with a territorial jurisdiction and not the Court, and so also section 26.
 Under section 33 the power of control (apart from the High Court) over all civil Courts within the local limits of a District Judge's jurisdiction is with him, and section 34 empowers the District Judge to distribute any civil business "cognizable by .... the Courts under his control.... among such Courts in such manner as he thinks fit".

STA : Section 193(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code imposes a definite bar which cannot be ignored or waived any more than the prohibitions under sections 132 and 197 and, just as the sanctions provided for in those sections cannot be given by any authority save the ones specified, so here, only the Courts mentioned in section 195 (1) (b) and (c) can remove the bar and make the complaint.

STA : The Rules and Orders of the Punjab High Court reproduce a Notification of the High Court dated 16-5-1935 as amended on 23-2-1940, at page 3 of Chapter 20-B of Volume I, where it is said in paragraph 2- "It is further directed the Court of such Senior Subordinate Judge of the first class shall be deemed to be a District Court, etc."

STA : 
It states that- "the High Court may by notification direct that appeals lying to the District Court from all or any of the decrees or orders passed in an original suit by any Subordinate Judge shall be preferred to such other Subordinate Judge as may be mentioned in the notification, and the appeals shall thereupon be preferred accordingly, and the Court of such other Subordinate Judge shall 'De deemed to be a District Court, etc.
"

STA : 
 As we have already pointed out, section 18 of that Act states that, in addition to Courts of Small Causes 139 and Courts established under other enactments, "there shall be the following classes of Civil Courts, namely:-- (1) The Court of the District Judge; (2) The Court of the Additional Judge; and (3) The Court of the Subordinate Judge".
The Court of the Additional Judge is therefore constituted a distinct class of Court, and it is to be observed that the Act speaks of the Court of the Additional Judge and not of the Additional District Judge as is the case with certain other Acts in other parts of India.

STA : ``214(1).

STA : There shall be a High Court for each State''.

STA : 
 "216 .

STA : Every High Court shall consist of a Chief Justice and such other Judges as the President may from time to time deem it necessary to appoint".

STA : Section 21 (I) states that- "When the business pending before any District Judge requires the aid of an Additional Judge or Judges for its speedy disposal, the State Government may appoint such Additional Judges as may be necessary".
But these Judges cannot discharge all the judicial functions of the District Judge.

STA : Section 21(2) states that "An Additional Judge so appointed shall discharge any of the functions of a District Judge' which the District Judge may assign to him".

STA : 
It is true that sub-section (2) goes on to say that "in the discharge of those functions he shall exercise the same powers as the District Judge" but these powers are limited to the cases with which 140 he is entitled to deal.


Case id : 1746
STA : Domestic relationship is defined U/s 2(f) of PWDV Act which lays down that domestic relationship between two persons who live or have at any point of time lived together in a shared household, when they are related by consanguinity, marriage or through a relationship in nature of marriage, adoption or are family members living together in a joint family.

STA : Section 27 of PWDV Act lays down that the court of jurisdiction Magistrate of the place where the aggrieved person temporarily or permanently resides or carries on business or is employed, the place where respondent resides or carries on business or is employed or the place where the cause of action arose shall be competent to pass order under this court.


Case id : 1720
STA : If, as a matter of fact, a marriage although ineffective in the eye of law, took place between the appellant No. 1 and the respondent No. 1, the status of the boy must be held to be of a legitimate son on account of s. 16(1) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, which reads as follows: "16(1). Notwithstanding that a marriage is null and void under Section 11, any child of such marriage who would have been legitimate if the marriage had been valid, shall be legitimate, whether such child is born before or after the commencement of the Marriage Laws (Amendment) Act, 1976 (68 of 1976), and whether or not a decree of nullity is granted in respect of that marriage under this Act and whether or not the marriage is held to be void otherwise than on a petition under this Act."
 


Case id : 1718

Case id : 1723
STA : 
 During the relevant period section 10 of the Act read thus : "10. Power of Government to grant exemption and reduction in rate of tax : (1) The Government may, if they consider it necessary in the public interest, by notification in the Gazette, make an exemption or reduction in rate in respect of any tax payable under this Act : (i) on the sale or purchase of any specified goods or class of goods, at all points or at a specified point or points in the series of sales or purchase by successive dealers, or (ii) by any specified class of person, in regard to the whole or any part of their turnover.
                  (2) Any exemption from tax, or reduction in the rate of tax, notified under sub-section (1).

STA : - (a) may extend to the whole State or any specified area or areas therein, (b) may be subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be specified in the notification.

STA : 
                  (3) The Government may, by notification in the Gazette, cancel or vary any notification issued under sub-section (1)."
         

STA : Now section 10 of the Act reads thus : "10. Power of Government to grant exemption and reduction in rate of tax - (1) the Government may, if they consider it necessary in the public interest by notification in the Gazette, make an exemption or reduction in rate, either prospectively or retrospectively in respect of any tax payable under this Act:- (i) On the sale or purchase of any specified goods or class of goods, at all points or at a specified point or points in the series of sales or purchases by successive dealers, or (ii) by any specified class of persons in regard to the whole or any part of the turnover.

STA : 
                  (2) Any exemption from tax, or reduction in the rate of tax, notified under sub-section (1), - (a) may extend to the whole State or to any specified area or areas therein, - (b) may be subject to such restriction and conditions as may be specified in the notification.

STA : 
                  (3) The Government may by notification in the 621 Gazette cancel or vary any notification issued under sub-section (1)."
 (emphasis added)


Case id : 1722

Case id : 1721

Case id : 1767

Case id : 1777

Case id : 1773

Case id : 1771

Case id : 1768

Case id : 1755

Case id : 1751

Case id : 1732
STA : 
 Art. 21 is in these terms "No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law."
 The term 'law' in Art. 21 was the subject of an elaborate discussion in A. K. Gapalan v. The State of Madras(-).


Case id : 1731
STA : 
 "80P. (1) Where, in the case of an assessee being a co-operative society, the gross total income includes any income referred to in sub-section (2), there shall be deducted, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, the sums specified in sub-section (2), in computing the total income of the assessee.

STA : 
 (2) The sums referred to in sub-section (1) shall be the following, namely :-- (a) in the case of a co-operative society engaged in-- (i) carrying on the business of banking or providing credit facilities to its members, or (ii) x x x x x (iii) x x x x x x x x x x (4) The provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to any co-operative bank other than a primary agricultural credit society or a primary co- operative agricultural and rural development bank.

STA : 
 Explanation.--

STA : For the purposes of this sub- section, (a) "co-operative bank" and "primary agricultural credit society" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949); (b) "primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank" means a society having its area of operation confined to a taluk and the principal object of which is to provide for long-term credit for agricultural and rural development activities.]"

STA : 
 "Section 56 of the BR Act:- Act to apply to co-operative societies subject to modifications

STA : . --The provisions of this Act, as in force for the time being, shall apply to, or in relation to, co- operative societies as they apply to, or in relation to banking companies subject to the following modifications, namely:-- (a) throughout this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-- (i) references to a "banking company" or "the company" or "such company" shall be construed as references to a co-operative bank; (ii) references to "commencement of this Act" shall be construed as references to commencement of the Banking Laws (Application to Co-operative Societies) Act, 1965 (23 of 1965); (b) in section 2, the words and figures "the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and" shall be omitted; (c) in section 5,-- [(i) after clause (cc), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:-- (cci) "Co-operative bank" means a state co- operative bank, a central co-operative bank and a primary co-operative bank; (ccii) "co-operative credit society" means a co- operative society, the primary object of which is to provide financial accommodation to its members and includes a co- operative land mortgage bank; (cciia) "co-operative society" means a society registered or deemed to have been registered under any Central Act for the time being in force relating to the multi-State co-operative societies, or any other Central or State law relating to co-operative societies for the time being in force;]

STA : (cciii) "director" in relation to a co-operative society, includes a member of any committee or body for the time being vested with the management of the affairs of that society; [(cciiia) "multi-State co-operative bank" means a multi-State co-operative society which is a primary co- operative bank;] [(cciiib) "multi-State co-operative society" means a multi-State co-operative society registered as such under any Central Act for the time being in force relating to the multi-State co-operative societies but does not include a national co-operative society and a federal co-operative;] (cciv) "primary agricultural credit society" means a co-operative society,-- (1) the primary object or principal business of which is to provide financial accommodation to its members for agricultural purposes or for purposes connected with agricultural activities (including the marketing of crops); and (2)

STA : the bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as member:

STA : Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to the admission of a co-operative bank as a member by reason of such co-operative bank sub-scribing to the share capital of such co-operative society out of funds provided by the State Government for the purpose; (ccv) "primary co-operative bank" means a co- operative society, other than a primary agricultural credit society,-- (1) the primary object or principal business of which is the transaction of banking business; (2) the paid-up share capital and reserves of which are not less than one lakh of rupees; and (3) the bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as a member:

STA : Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to the admission of a co-operative bank as a member by reason of such co- operative bank subscribing to the share capital of such co-operative society out of funds provided by the State Government for the purpose; (ccvi) "primary credit society" means a co- operative society, other than a primary agricultural credit society,-- (1) the primary object or principal business of which is the transaction of banking business; (2) the paid-up share capital and reserves of which are less than one lakh of rupees; and (3) the bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as a member: Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to the admission of a co-operative bank as a member by reason of such co-operative bank subscribing to the share capital of such co-operative socie-ty out of funds provided by the State Government for the purpose.
 Explanation.--

STA : 
 It is further contended that the activity of "banking", is defined under Section 5 (b) of the BR Act as follows : "5(b) "banking" means the accepting, for the purpose of lending or investment, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or otherwise, and withdrawal by cheque, draft, order or otherwise

STA : ; It is asserted that the assessee did not carry on any such activity.

STA : And if they did carry on any such activity, it would be illegal and becomes subject to the rigour of Section 37 of the BR Act.

STA : 
 For the purpose of sub-section 80P(4), a co-operative bank has been given a meaning assigned to them in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.

STA : 
 In Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, section 5(b), a "co-operative bank" means a State Co-operative Bank, a Central Co-operative Bank and a Primary Co-operative Bank.

STA : A Primary Co-operative Bank is defined in section 5(ccv) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as the co-operative society which fulfills three conditions namely: i) The primary object or principal business of which is transaction of banking business.
 ii) The paid-up share capital and reserves of which are not less than one lakh of rupees and iii) The bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as a member.
 

STA : If a co-operative society fulfills all the above three conditions, it is to be treated as a co-operative bank for the purpose of section 80P(4) and the benefit of deduction under Section 80P(2)(a)(i) is denied.

STA : It is also proposed to insert a new sub-clause (viia) in clause (24) of the Section 2 so as to provide that ttheprofits and gains of any business of banking (including providing credit facilities) carried on by a co-operative society with its members shall be included in the definition of "income".
 Section 2(24(viia) of the Income Tax Act inserted by the Finance Act, 2006,

STA : with effect from 1.4.2007 includes the following in its definition of "income" as under: "profits and gains of any business of banking (including providing credit facilities) carried on by a co-operative society with its members."

STA : The relevant portion of Section 80P is as under: "80P(1): Where, in the case of an assessee being a co-operative society, the gross total income includes any income referred to in sub-section (2), there shall be deducted, in accordance with an subject to the provisions of this section, the sums specified in sub-section (2), in computing the total income of the assessee.

STA : 
 (2) The sum referred to in sub-section (1) shall be the following, namely:- (a) the case of a co-operative society engaged in :- (i) Carrying on the business of banking or providing credit facilities to its memebrs, or ......
 (ii) ....................
                (iii) ....................
                (iv) ....................
                (v) ....................
                (vi) ....................
                

STA : (vii) ....................
                

STA : The whole of the amount of profits and gains of business attributable to any one or more of such activities.

STA : 
 Section 80P(4) which came to be introduced in the statute by the Finance Act, 2006, with effect from 1.4.2007, reads as under: 80P(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to any co-operative bank other than a primary agricultural credit society or a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank.
 Explanation:- For the purposes of this sub-section, (a) "co-operative bank" and "primary agricultural credit society" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949); (b) "primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank" means a society having its area of operation confined to a taluk and the principal object of which is to provide for long-term credit for agricultural and rural development activities.
 Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, section 5(cci): In order to examine in a given case of an assessee society whether it is a co-operative bank or not as defined in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, of the said Act has to be looked into.

STA : Section 5(cci) states as under: "Co-operative bank" means a state co-operative bank, a central co-operative bank and a primary co- operative bank."
 

STA : The primary co-operative bank is defined under Section 5(ccv) of the BR Act as under: ""primary co-operative bank" means a co-operative society, other than a primary agricultural credit society-- (1) The primary object or principal business of which is transaction of banking business: (2) The paid-up share capital and reserves of which are not less than one lakh of rupees and (3) The bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative society as a member: Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to the admission of a co-operative bank as a member by reason of such co-operative bank subscribing to the share capital of such Co-operative society out of funds provided by the State Government `for the purpose'".
 Section 5(cciia) of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 defines a Co-operative Society as under: "Co-operative Society means a society registered or deemed to have been registered under any Central Act for the time being in force relating to the multi-State co-operative societies or any other Central or State law relating to co-operative societies for the time being in force;"
 Section 5(b) of the Banking Regulation Act, will also have to be looked into to examine whether the primary object or principal business of the co-operative society is transaction of banking business.

STA : The section is as under: "banking" means the accepting, for the purpose of lending or investment, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or otherwise, and withdrawable by cheque, draft, order or otherwise"
 


Case id : 1766
STA : Relevant Sub-Section reads thus: "4(3) When trying any case, a special Judge may also try any offence, other than an offence specified in Section 3, with which the accused may, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973(2 of 1974), be charged at the same trial."
 24.


Case id : 1765

Case id : 1782

Case id : 1780
STA : Having heard the learned advocates and on perusal of case papers, I am of the considered view that it would be necessary to extract relevant provision of Section 226 of I.T. Act for better appreciation of contention raised by learned advocates and they read as under: Section 222.Other modes of recovery- (1) Where no certificate has been drawn up under section 222, the Assessing Officer may recover the tax by any one or more of the modes provided in this section.
        (2) Xxx

STA : xxx (3) (i) the Assessing Officer or Tax Recovery Officer may, at any time or from time to time, by notice in writing require any person from whom money is due or may become due to the assessee or any person who holds or may subsequently hold money for or on account of the assessee to pay the Assessing Officer or Tax Recovery Officer either forthwith upon the money becoming due or being held or at or within the time specified in the notice not being before the money becomes due or is held) so much of the money as is sufficient to pay the amount due by the assessee in respect of arrears or the whole of the money when it is equal to or less than that amount.

STA : 
vi) Where a person to whom a notice under this sub-section is sent objects to it by a statement on oath that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not due to the assessee or that he does not hold any money for or on accoutn of the assessee, then, nothing contained in this sub-section shall be deemed to require such person to pay any such sum or part thereof, as the case may be, but if it is discovered that such statement was false in any material particular, such person shall be personally liable to the Assessing officer or Tax Recovery Officer to the extent of his own liability to the assessee on the date of the notice, or to the extent of the assessee's liability for any sum due under this Act, whichever is less.

STA : 
x) if the person to whom a notice under this sub-section is sent fails to make payment in pursuance thereof to the Assessing Officer or Tax Recovery Officer, he shall be deemed to be an assessee in default in respect of the amount specified in the notice and further proceedings may be taken against him for the realisation of the amount as if it were an arrear of tax due from him, in the manner provided in sections 222 to 225 and the notice shall have the same effect as an attachment of a debt by the Tax Recovery Officer in exercise of his powers under section 222.

STA : 
 Sub section (3) of Section 226 of the Act provides for the mode of recovery by way of attachment of debts.


Case id : 1778
STA : They read as follows: "2(6A) "dividend" includes-- (a) any distribution by a company of accumulated profits whether capitalised or not, if such distri- bution entails the release by the company to its shareholders of all or any part of the assets of the company; (b) any distribution by a company of deben- tures, debenture-stock or deposit certificates in any form, whether with or without interest, to the extent to, which the company possesses accumulated profits, whether capitalised or not; (c) any distribution made to the shareholders of a company on its liquidation, to the extent to which the distribution is attributable to the accumulated profits of the company immediately before its liquidation, whether capitalised or not; 642 (d) any distribution by a company on the reduc- tion of its capital to the extent to which the company possesses accumulated profits which arose after the end of the previous year ending next before the 1st day of April, 1933, whether such accumulated profits have been capitalised or not; (e) any payment by a company, not being a company in which the public are substantially interested within the meaning of section 23A, of any sum (whether as representing a part of the assets of the company or otherwise) by way of advance or loan to a shareholder or any payment by any such company On behalf or for the individual benefit of a shareholder, to the extent to which the company in either case possesses accumulated profits;

STA : Explanation--The expression "accumulated profits," wherever it occurs in this clause, shall not include capital gains arising before the 1st day of April, 1946, or after the 31st day of March, 1948 and before the 1st day of April, 1956."

STA : Says the learned author at page 912 after referring to Article 128 corresponding to Regula- tion 96 of Table "A" of the Indian Companies Act: "A company may, if its constitution so al- lows, capitalize profits, instead of dividing them, by applying them in paying up unissued shares, or debentures or other securities, and issuing such shares or securities as fully paid to its members, thereby transferring the sum capitalized from profit and loss or reserve account to share or loan capital account."


Case id : 1737

Case id : 1736
STA : 
 14.  The law with regard to scope of Section 84 IPC has been explained in various rulings, which is as follows.

STA : (a)  Bhikari v The State of U.P. AIR 1966 SC 1.
 

STA : Every person is presumed to know the natural consequences of his act.

STA : Similarly every person is also presumed to know the law.

STA : It is for this reason that S. 105 of the Evidence Act places upon the accused person the burden of proving the exception relied upon by him.

STA : 
 (b)  State of M.P. v. Ahmadulla AIR 1961 SC 998 & Jay Lal v.
 Delhi Administration AIR 1969 SC 15.
 State of mind of the accused just before or just after commission of the act is relevant.

STA : 
 (C)   Dahyabhai Chhaganbhai Thakkar v. State of Gujarat AIR 1964 SC 1563.
 

STA : The evidence shows that the accused gave several blows is not indicative of insanity.

STA : It reflects of his vengeful mood or his determination to see that the victim had no escape.

STA : (d)   Ratan Lal v The State of Madhya Pradesh AIR 1971 SC 778.
 Tendency to set fire to one's own clothes and house is more than mere irrationality.

STA : It is prima facie proof of insanity.

STA : Testimony of defence witnesses as to unsoundness of mind of accused should not be disbelieved merely because they are relation of accused.

STA : It is not necessary that every insane person should have homicidal tendencies.

STA : What is material is behaviour of the appellant on the day of the occurrence.

STA : 
 .    (The case where the accused has appointed advocate of his own choice will be governed by the ratio in AG v. Shiv Kumar Yadav & Anr. 2015 Cr.L.J. 4640 SC).
 23.  It is necessary to issue directions to all the police officers through Director General of Police and to all the Judicial Magistrates, Sessions Judges/Special Judges through the Registrar General of the High Court of Bombay as follows : i.

STA : Whenever any accused person is arrested and there is any history or the conduct of the accused indicating that he is not mentally sound, it is the duty of the Police Officer who has arrested him to produce him before the Medical Officer for his examination with regard to his unsoundness of mind and to obtain the necessary certificate.

STA : If he is suffering from any unsoundness of mind, he should be forwarded to mental hospital for treatment and until certificate of his fitness is received, the matter cannot proceed further.

STA : 
 ii. If the Investigating Officer fails to perform his duty of getting the accused person examined, it is the obligation of Judicial Magistrate before whom he is produced for the first time.

STA : If he finds at the time of first remand that there is history of insanity or symptoms of the accused showing insanity, he should refer the accused for medical examination and find out whether the accused is suffering from mental or legal insanity or not.

STA : In case of mental insanity, he should be provided with appropriate medical help.

STA : 
 iii.

STA : It should be also born in mind by the trial Judges that, no criminal case particularly inviting the substantial sentence should be conducted without appointment of advocate.

STA : If the accused is not represented, appropriate legal assistance should be provided to him at the state expenses.

STA : iv. In case of sessions triable offence, it is the duty of the Sessions Judge that sufficiently experienced lawyer should be provided for conducting the case of accused person.

STA : The inquiry should be made whether he has conducted sessions cases or not and his length of practice would not suffice for his appointment.

STA : In case of sessions cases of complex or peculiar facts it should be esquired whether he has conducted such case or not.

STA : Legal aid to be provided at state expenses should not be for the name sake.

STA : Then only he should be appointed as advocate for the accused and after recording his satisfaction of competency of the advocate.

STA : Copies of this judgment may be forwarded to Registrar General and Director General of Police, Maharashtra for issuing necessary directions in this regard.


Case id : 1735

Case id : 1793

Case id : 1792
STA : So also the trial Court acquitted accused nos. 2, 3, 5, 8 and 10 to 13 for the offences punishable under sections 143 and 147 of the I.P.C.

STA : Hence Criminal Appeal No. 358 of 1999 is filed by the State against the judgment and order of acquittal and Criminal Appeal No.337/1999 is filed by the original accused nos.1, 4, 6, 7 and 9 against the judgment and order of conviction.

STA : (1) When any person is found guilty of having committed an offence not punishable with death or imprisonment for life and the Court by which the person is found guilty is of opinion that, having regard to the circumstances of the case including the nature of the offence and the character of the offender, it is expedient to release him on probation of good conduct, then, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the Court may, instead of sentencing him at once to any punishment direct that he be released on his entering into a bond, with or without sureties, to appear and receive sentence when called upon during such period not exceeding three years, as the Court may direct, and in the meantime to keep the peace and be of good behaviour: Provided that the Court shall not direct such release of an offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety, if any, has a fixed place of abode or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.

STA : 
(2) Before making any order under sub-section (1), the Court shall take into consideration the report, if any, of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case.

STA : 
 (3) When an order under sub-section (1) is made, the Court may, if it is of opinion that in the interests of the offender and of the pubic it is expedient so to do, in addition pass a supervision order directing that the offender shall remain under the supervision of a probation officer named in the order during such period, not being less than one year, as may be specified therein, and may in such supervision order impose such conditions as it deems necessary for the due supervision of the offender.
     (4) The Court making a supervision order under sub- section (3) shall require the offender, before he is released, to enter into a bond, with or without sureties, to observe the conditions specified in such order and such additional conditions with respect to residence, abstention from intoxicants or any other matter as the Court may, having regard to the particular circumstances, consider fit to impose for preventing a repetition of the same offence or a commission of other offences by the offender.

STA : 
     (5) The Court making a supervision order under sub- section (3) shall explain to the offender the terms and conditions of the order and shall forthwith furnish one copy of the supervision order to each of the offenders, the sureties, if any, and the probation officer concerned."


Case id : 1789

Case id : 1761
STA : Section 42 (2) of NDPS Act reads as under: Section 42. Power of entry, search, seizure and arrest without warrant or authorization.

STA : 
 (2) Where an officer takes down any information in writing under sub-section (1) or records grounds for his belief under the proviso thereto, he shall within seventy-two hours send a copy thereof to his immediate official superior.


Case id : 1758

Case id : 1757
STA : Section 32 in so far as relevant in the present case is as follows:- S.32. Cases in which statement of relevant fact by person who is dead or cannot be found, etc., is relevant.

STA :  Statements, written or verbal, of relevant facts made by a person who is dead, or who cannot be found, or who has become incapable of giving evidence, or whose attendance cannot be procured without an amount of delay or expense which under the circumstances of the case appears to the Court unreasonable, are themselves relevant facts in the following cases:  (1) When it relates to cause of death.  When the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in which the cause of that person's death comes into question.

STA : 
 Such statements are relevant whether the person who made them was or was not, at the time when they were made, under expectation of death, and whatever may be the nature of the proceeding in which the cause of his death comes into question.

STA : xxxxxxxxxxxxxx

STA : Illustrations: (a)

STA : The question is, whether A was murdered by B; or A died of injuries received in a transaction in the course of which she was ravished.

STA : The question is whether she was ravished by B; or

STA : The question is, whether A was killed by B under such circumstances that a suit would lie against B by A's widow.

STA : 
 Statements made by A as to the cause of his or her death, referring respectively to the murder, the rape and the actionable wrong under consideration, are relevant facts.
 9.

STA : Section 162 Cr.P.C. is as follows:- 162. Statements to police not to be signed: Use of statements in evidence.--(1) No statement made by any person to a police officer in the course of an investigation under this Chapter, shall, if reduced to writing, be signed by the person making it; nor shall any such statement or any record thereof, whether in a police diary or otherwise, or any part of such statement or record, be used for any purpose, save as hereinafter provided, at any inquiry or trial in respect of any offence under investigation at the time when such statement was made:

STA : Provided that when any witness is called for the prosecution in such inquiry or trial whose statement has been reduced into writing as aforesaid, any part of his statement, if duly proved, may be used by the accused, and with the permission of the Court, by the prosecution, to contradict such witness in the manner provided by section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act , 1872 (1 of 1872); and when any part of such statement is so used, any part thereof may also be used in the re-examination of such witness, but for the purpose only of explaining any matter referred to in his cross-examination.

STA : 
 (2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any statement falling within the provisions of clause (1) of section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872); or to affect the provisions of section 27 of that Act.

STA : 
 Explanation.--An omission to state a fact or circumstance in the statement referred to in sub-section (1) may amount to contradiction if the same appears to be significant and otherwise relevant having regard to the context in which such omission occurs and whether any omission amounts to a contradiction in the particular context shall be a question of fact.

STA : Even otherwise, Section 161 and 162 of the Cr.P.C. admittedly provide for a restric- tive use of the statements recorded during the course of the investigation but sub-Section (2) of Section 162 deals with a situation where the maker of the statement dies and reads as under: "(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any statement falling within the provi- sions of clause (1) of Section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), or to affect the provisions of section 27 of that Act."
 5.

STA : Section 162(2) CrPC reads as under: "162. (2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any statement falling within the provi- sions of clause (1) of Section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), or to affect the provisions of Section 27 of that Act."

STA : 
 22. Under Section 32(1) of the Evidence Act it has been provided as under: "32.

STA : Cases in which statement of relevant fact by person who is dead or cannot be found, etc. is rele- vant.--Statements, written or verbal,

STA : of relevant facts made by a person who is dead, or who cannot be found, or who has become incapable of giv- ing evidence, or whose attendance cannot be procured without an amount of delay or expense which under the circumstances of the case appears to the court unreasonable, are them- selves relevant facts in the follow- ing cases: (1) When it relates to cause of death.--When the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circum- stances of the transaction which re- sulted in his death, in cases in which the cause of that person's death comes into question.

STA : 
        Such statements are relevant whether the person who made them was or was not, at the time when they were made, under expectation of death, and whatever may be the nature of the proceeding in which the cause of his death comes into question."
 23.


Case id : 1743
STA : 
Section 10-A of the Act deal with penalties.

STA : Section 10-A is a provision for imposition of penalty in lieu of prosectuion.

STA : This section was initially added by section 8 of the Amendment Act 31 of 1958 with effect from 1st October, 1958.

STA : This section has undergone several amendments.

STA : On 9th June, 1969 with retrospective effect the section was amended.

STA : The section was again amended with effect from 1st April, 1973.

STA : Sub-section (1) of section 10A which is material for our present purpose at the relevant time was as follows : "10A. (1) If any person purchasing goods is guilty of an offence under clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) of section 10, the authority who granted to him, or as the case may be, is competent to grant to him a certificate of registration under this Act may after giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by order in writing, impose upon him by way of penalty a sum not exceeding one-and-a-half times the tax which would have been levied under this Act in respect of the sale to him of the goods, if the offence had not been committed; Provided that no prosecution for an offence under section 10 shall be instituted in respect of the same facts on which a penalty has been imposed under this section."
931 Sub-section (1) of section 10A provided that if any A person purchasing goods is guilty of an offence under clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) of section 10, the authority who granted to him or, as the case may be, is competent to grant to him a certificate of registration under the Act, may, after giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by an order in writing, impose upon him by way of penalty sum not exceeding one-and-a-half times the tax which would have been levied at the relevant time in respect of sale of goods if the offence had not been committed.

STA : 
 It may be mentioned that section 10 imposes penalty if any person, inter alia, under clause (d) of section 10 after purchasing any goods for the purpose specified in clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) of sub-section (3) of section 8, fails without reasonable excuse to make use of the goods for the purposes mentioned in the certificates.

STA : Section 8 deals with the rates of tax on sales in the course of inter-State trade or commerce.

STA : it stipulates that every dealer, who in the course of inter-State trade or commerce, inter alia, sells to a registered dealer other than the Government goods of the description referred to in sub-section (3) shall be liable to pay tax under the Act, which shall be four per cent now and at the relevant time prior to 1975 was three per cent of the turnover.

STA : Sub-section (3) of section 8 deals with the goods referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 8.
 


Case id : 1742

Case id : 1740

Case id : 1739

Case id : 1738

Case id : 1788

Case id : 1787

Case id : 1786

Case id : 1785

Case id : 1784

Case id : 1781

Case id : 1779

Case id : 1762

Case id : 1756
STA : For better appreciation of the facts, Section 80-O of the Act as it stood at the relevant point in time reads as under: " Sec.80-O Deduction in respect of royalties, etc., from certain foreign enterprises.

STA :  Where the gross total income of an assessee, being an Indian company, or an person (other than a company) who is resident in India includes any income by way of royalty, commission, fees or any similar payment received by the assessee from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise in consideration for the use outside India of any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process, or similar property right, or information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific knowledge, experience or skill made available or provided or agreed to be made available or provided to such Government or enterprise by the assessee, or in consideration of technical or professional services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India to such Government or enterprise by the assessee, and such income is received in convertible foreign exchange in India, or having been received in convertible foreign exchange outside India, is brought into India, by or on behalf of the assessee in accordance with any law for the time being in force for regulating payments and dealings in foreign exchange, they shall be allowed, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, a deduction of an amount equal to fifty per cent of the income so received in, or brought into India, in computing the total income of the assessee,: Explanation

STA :  For the purposes of this Section, - (i) `convertible foreign exchange, means foreign exchange which is for the time being treated by the RBI as convertible foreign exchange for the purposes of the law for the time being in force for regulating payments and dealings in foreign exchange; (ii) "foreign enterprise" means a person who is a non-resident; (iii) services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India shall include services rendered from India but shall not include services rendered in India; 11.


Case id : 1754

Case id : 1752

Case id : 1749

Case id : 1748
STA : Section 30, however, provides that the court may take the confession into consideration and thereby, no doubt, makes it evidence on which the court may act; but the section does not say that the confession is to amount to proof.


Case id : 1747
STA : 
 (( 8 )) 8.

STA :  For better understanding, while dealing with the jurisdictional objection of the respondent, it would be advantageous to refer to Section 35-G, which permits the filing of an appeal in the High Court.

STA : Section 35-G reads as under :- "35-G. Appeal to High Court : [Omitted by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), Section 30 and Schedule, Part VII (w.e.f.
    28.12.2005)] Explanation : 1. . . . . . .
    2.

STA : Prior to its omission, S.35-G read as under : "35-G. Appeal to High Court : (1) An appeal shall lie to the High Court from every order passed in appeal by the Appellate Tribunal on or after the 1st day of July, 2003 (not being an order relating, among other things, to the determination of any question having a relation to the rate of duty of excise or to the value of goods for purposes of assessment), if the High Court is satisfied that the case involves a substantial question of law.

STA : 
 9.  The underlined portion of Section 35-G leads to a plain and simple meaning that an appeal, challenging an order passed by the Tribunal and relating to, amongst other things, the determination of any question having a relation to the rate of the duty of excise or to the value of the goods, for purpose of assessment, would not be maintainable before this Court.


Case id : 1745

Case id : 1744

Case id : 1744

Case id : 1733
STA : That clause reads as follows :- ....... culpable homicide is murder..... if the person committing the act knows that it is so imminently 527 dangerous that it must in all probability, cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and commits'such act without any excuse for incurring the risk or causing death or such injury as aforesaid."


Case id : 1730

Case id : 1729
STA : 7. Section 321 of the CrPC reads as follows:- "321. Withdrawal from prosecution.

STA : The Public Prosecutor or Assistant Public Prosecutor in charge of a case may, with the consent of the Court, at any time before the judgment is pronounced, withdraw from the prosecution of any person either generally or in respect of any one or more of the offences for which he is tried; and, upon such withdrawal,- (a) if it is made before a charge has been framed, the accused shall be discharged in respect of such offence or offences; (b) if it is made after a charge has been framed, or when under this Code no charge is required, he shall be acquitted in respect of such offence or offences: Provided that where such offence- (i) was against any law relating to a matter to which the executive power of the Union extends, or (ii) was investigated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946 ), or (iii) involved the misappropriation or destruction of, or damage to, any property belonging to the Central Government, or (iv) was committed by a person in the service of the Central Government while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty, and the Prosecutor in charge of the case hag hot been appointed by the Central Government, he shall not, unless he has been permitted by the Central Government to do so, move the Court for its consent to withdraw from the prosecution and the Court shall, before according consent, direct the Prosecutor to produce before it the permission granted by the Central Government to withdraw from the prosecution."
 

STA : The said provision confers authority on the Public Prosecutor to withdraw from the prosecution of any person accused of an offence, both when no evidence is taken and even if the entire evidence has been taken.

STA : The outer limit for exercising the said power is guided by the expression "at any time before the judgment is pronounced".

STA : Therefore, the withdrawal of the prosecution shall be permitted only when valid reasons are made out for the same."
 10 (2005) 2 SCC 377 10.

STA : In Bairam Muralidhar v. State of A.P11, while appreciating the said provision, it has been laid down that:- "18. ... it is the obligation of the Public Prosecutor to state what material he has considered.

STA : It has to be set out in brief.

STA : The court as has been held in Abdul Karim case, is required to give an informed consent.

STA : It is obligatory on the part of the court to satisfy itself that from the material it can reasonably be held that the withdrawal of the prosecution would serve the public interest.

STA : It is not within the domain of the court to weigh the material.


Case id : 1725
STA : To overcome this difficulty, the legislature intervened and introduced Section 114-A in the Evidence Act by Act No. 43 of 1983 reading as under:- 114-A. Presumption as to absence of consent in certain prosecutions for rape.-

STA : In a prosecution for rape under clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) or clause (e) or clause (g) or sub-section (2) of Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), where sexual intercourse by the accused is proved and the question is whether it was without the consent of the woman alleged to have been raped and she states in her evidence before the Court that she did not consent, the Court shall presume that she did not consent."


Case id : 1724

Case id : 1717
STA : For the purpose of brevity, I quote Section 364A of IPC, which reads as under: "364A. Kidnapping for ransom, etc.-

STA : Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person or keeps a person in detention after such kidnapping or abduction and threatens to cause death or hurt to such person, or by his conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt, or causes hurt or death to such person in order to compel the Government or any foreign State or international inter- governmental organization or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom, shall be punishable with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine."
 10.


Case id : 1715
STA : 8.         

STA : In this regard, it is pertinent to note Section 195(1)(b) (ii) of the CrPC, which provides that no Court shall take cognizance of any offence mentioned therein, if committed in respect of a document produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in any Court: "195. Prosecution for contempt of lawful authority of public servants, for offences against public justice and for offences relating to documents given in evidence.

STA : 
    (1) No Court shall take cognizance- ...
    (b) ...(ii) of any offence described in section 463, or punishable under section 471, section 475 or section 476, of the said Code, when such offence is alleged to have been committed in respect of a document produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in any Court..."
 9.         We may also note that Section 195(3) of the CrPC clarifies that the term "Court" means a Civil, Revenue or Criminal Court, and includes a tribunal constituted by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act, if declared by that Act to be a Court for the purposes of the said section.

STA : In this regard, it may be useful to note the wording of Section 340(1): "(1) When, upon an application made to it in this behalf or otherwise, any Court is of opinion that it is expedient in the interests of justice that an inquiry should be made into any offence referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 195, that Court or, as the case may be, in respect of a document produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in that Court, such Court may, after such preliminary inquiry, if any, as it thinks necessary-- (a) record a finding to that effect; (b) make a complaint thereof in writing; (c) send it to a Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction; (d) take sufficient security for the appearance of the accused before such Magistrate, or if the alleged offence is non-bailable and the Court thinks it necessary so to do, send the accused in custody to such Magistrate; and (e) bind over any person to appear and give evidence before such Magistrate."
                                                        (emphasis supplied) 11.

STA : A bare reading of Section 340 reveals that if the Court is of the opinion that an inquiry should be made into any offence referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 195, which appears to have been committed in, or in relation to a proceeding in that Court or, as the case may be, in respect of a document produced or given in evidence in proceeding in that Court, such Court may, after such preliminary inquiry, if any, as it thinks necessary, record a finding to that effect and thereafter make a complaint thereof in writing.

STA : 
 10. "Inquiry" is defined in Section 2(g) of the Code as "every inquiry, other than a trial, conducted under this Code by a Magistrate or court".

STA : 
 11. Section 238 of the Code says that the Magistrate shall at the outset satisfy himself that copies of all the relevant documents have been supplied to the accused.

STA : Section 240 of the Code says that if the Magistrate is of opinion, in the aforesaid inquiry, that there is ground for presuming that the accused has committed the offence he has to frame a charge in writing against the accused.

STA : Such charge shall then be read and explained to the accused and he shall be asked whether he pleads guilty of the offence charged or not.

STA : If he pleads not guilty then the Magistrate has to proceed to conduct the trial.

STA : Until then the inquiry continues before the Magistrate.


Case id : 1714
STA : That provision runs thus: "Where in any trial of an offence punishable under section 161 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained, or has agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, for himself or for any other person, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he accepted or 493 obtained, or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, that gratification or that valuable thing, as the case may be, as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in the said section 161, Sit or,, as the case may be, without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate."
 


Case id : 1713

Case id : 1763

Case id : 1753

