1956 ILO SC 38
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Kalua
State of Uttar Pradesh
21/11/1956
Syed Jafar Imam
Syed Jafar Imam, B. Jagannath Das, P. Govinda Menon
1958 AIR(SC) 180
1958 (64) CRLJ 300
1957 (1) SCR 187
Sir Padampat Singhania and Others v Commissioner of Gift Tax
1987 ILO ALL 99
Karan Yadav and Another Etc v Union of India and Another
2000 ILO ALL 387
State of Andhra Pradesh v Bayya Subba Rao and Company, Gudivada
1960 ILO AP 47
Monark Enterprises. and Kishan Tulpule and Others v Kishan Tulpule and Others. and Kischo Mills Private Limited and Another
1991 ILO MUM 289
Shirish Finance and Investment Private Limited v M. Sreenivasulu Reddy and Others
2001 ILO MUM 374
Bharat Law House v Hindustan Lever Limited and Anr
2002 ILO MUM 233
Arms Act
HELD: That the opinion of the fire-arms expert conclusively proved that the cartridge Ex. I had been fired from the pistol Ex. III.
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 135 of 1956. Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated November 25, 1955, of the Allahabad High Court, in Criminal Appeal No. 702 of 1955 and Referred No. 77 of 1955 arising out of the judgment and order dated May 17, 1955, of the Court of Sessions Judge, at Moradavad in Sessions Trial No. 29 of 1955.
P. S. Safeer
G. C. Mathur
C. P. Lal
1956. November 21. The Judgment was delivered by IMAM J.-The appellant was sentenced to death for the marder of Daya Ram by shooting him with a country made pistol. He was also convicted for being in possession of an unlicensed firearm under the Arms Act for which offence he was sentenced to two years rigorous imprisonment. He appealed to the High Court of Allahabad, but his appeal was dismissed and the conviction and sentence was affirmed. Against the decision of the Allahabad High Court the appellant obtained special leave to appeal to this Court.
"occurrence Dhakeri. On July 7, he informed the Sub-Inspector that he was prepared to produce the pistol Ex. III. The SubInspector and the appellant went to village Dhakeri and Kartar Singh, Mahtab Singh and Khamani were invited to witness the events that might follow. On reaching the appellant's house, which adjoins the resid- ential house of Ratto, the appellant stated that the pistol Ex. III had been concealed by him in a corn-bin. From a secret place he took out a key and opened the lock of his house with it. He then took the SubInspector and the witnesses to a mud corn-bin inside his house, which appeared to be freshly plastered at one place. The appellant removed the plaster at this place and from inside took out the country made 12bore pistol Ex. III, and three live 12-bore cartridges. The cartridge Ex. I, which was found near the cot of Daya Ram, and the pistol Ex. III were sent to Shyam Narain, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, who is , a fire- arms expert of the C. I. D. of Uttar Pradesh Government. He made scientific tests. He came to the conclusion as the result of the various tests made by him that the cartridge Ex, I was fired from the pistol Ex. III and no other fire- arm. While the Sessions Judge believed the testimony of the eye- witnesses, the learned Judges of the. High Court were of the opinion that they were unable to accept the assertion of the eye-witnesses that they actually saw the appellant with a pistol by the bedside of the deceased. The High Court, however, relied upon the circumstantial evidence in the case in upholding the conviction of the appellant. There was motive for the crime and a few days before the killing of. Daya Ram the appellant had held out a threat against him. The appellant was arrested fourteen miles away from his village which is the place of occurrence. He produced a pistol Ex.III from his house in circumstances which clearly showed that he only could have known of its existence there. The opinion of the fire-arms expert clearly established that the cartridge Ex. 1, found near the cot of Daya Ram, was fired with the pistol Ex. III produced -by the appellant. All these circumstances, in the opinion of the High Court, left no doubt in the minds of the learned Judges of that Court that the appellant murdered Daya Ram by shooting him with his pistol.The learned Advocate for the appellant urged that the appellant could not have placed the pistol in his house and it must have been planted there by someone because none of the witnesses stated that they had seen him going to his house after the murder and the appellant was certainly not found in his house in the morning. According to the situation of the house of the appellant and where the witnesses were immediately after the occurrence, it was impossible for the appellant to have entered his house without being seen. It was further unlikely that after having committed the murder, the appellant, after having run away, would return to his house. Both the Courts below, however, found no reason to disbelieve the Sub-Inspector and the witnesses that the appellant had produced the pistol Ex. III from the corn-bin inside his house. The appellant had the key of the house which was hidden in a secret place and the com-bin was itself freshly plastered at one place. These circumstances clearly showed that no one but the appellant could have known of the existence of the pistol in the corn-bin in his house. As to whether the appellant could or.could not have gone to his house after the occurrence that is a matter of pure speculation. It does not appear that any witness was asked anything about it. The High Court found that the witnesses might have caught a glimpse of the people who were fast disappearing from the scene but who had no reasonable opportunity of marking their features. In the confusion of the occurrence the witnesses may not have observed where the culprits had disa speared except that they were seen running towards the east. On the record, there is nothing to show that to enter the appellant's house, after the occurrence, the appellant had necessarily to go into his house within the view of the witnesses. It is quite unnecessary to examine this matter any further because the evidence concerning the production of the pistol Ex. III by the appellant from his house is' clear and reliable and, therefore, it is certain that the appellant did enter his house after the occurrence without being seen by anyone.It was next urged on behalf of the appellant, that, it was impossible for a cartridge to have been near the cot of Daya Ram, because after the shot had been fired the cartridge would still remain in the barrel of the firearm. This again is pure speculation. That the cartridge was ejected from the fire-arm is certain. Why it was ejected none can say. It may be that the miscreant reloaded his weapon to meet any emergency. The evidence of the Sub-Inspector is clear that on his arrival at the place of occurrence the cartridge Ex. I was handed over to him by the witness Khamani who cannot be said to be unfavorable to the appellant. The Courts below had no reason to disbelieve the evidence in the case that the cartridge Ex. I was found near the cot of Daya Ram and we can find no extraordinary circumstance to justify us saying that the Courts below took an erroneous view of the evidence.
"After :dealing with the marks left by breech-block, firing pin impressions, marks from extractors and ejectors, marks due to expansion, magazine marks and loading mechanism marks, he states,"
"also deal with the subject and they refer to the marks from the fire pin, the extractor, the. ejector and the breech-block. After referring to comparison being made of the cartridge or shell fired from a fire-arm for the purpose of test, they state at page 200, If they are in the same position in relation to one another and their general appearance is the same, one may conclude that they have been fired from a pistol of the same make. An absolute conclusion about the origin of the shells, however, can be reached only after a photomicrographic examination of the markings from the breech-block on the rear of the shell.............................Identification, with the aid of the enlargement, should not prove difficult. The characteristic scratches can be easily seen. A photograph of the incriminating shell and one of a comparison shell should be pasted side by side on cardboard, and the characteristic marks should be recorded with lines and ciphers, following the same method as that used in the' identification of fingerprints."
"It is never safe to say that a cartridge case was not fired from a given pistol unless the marks are quite different, and a case which bears no marks at all may quite well have been fired from the same pistol as one which leaves well-defined marks. In general, however, though it is unlikely that -all marks will be equally good, it is usually possible to obtain definite information from the marks of the firing-pin, extractor, ejector, or breech- block. on the base or rim, or from grooves or scratches on the surface. In weapons of the same manufacture, the marks are of the same general nature, but in each weapon there are individual differences which usually enable it to be definitely identified."
