Precedent Relied : The Commissioner of Income-tax then applied for special leave against the order passed by the Tribunal in the appeal before it, and the present appeal, with special leave, has been filed Before we examine the merits of the case, we shall deal with a preliminary objection raised on behalf of the respondent that the appeal is incompetent, in view of the decision of this court in Chandi Prasad Chokhani v. State of Bihar, where it was held that this court would not entertain an appeal directly from an order of the Tribunal by passing the decision of the High Court, except in very exceptional circums tances.

Precedent Referred : The appellant relies upon the decision of this court in Baldev Singh v. Commissioner of Income-tax, and contends that the exceptional circumstances existing in the latter case, and adverted to in the former, govern the present caseThe facts relating to the filing of the application for reference together with the relevant dates are these.

Precedent Referred : A similar view was again expressed in two other cases, viz., Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax and Kanhaiyalal Lohia v. Commissioner of Income-tax.

Precedent Referred : In all the three cases, reliance was placed by the appellants therein upon the decisions of this court in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd, v. Commissioner of Income-tax and Baldev Singh v. Commissioner of Income-tax.

Precedent Referred : In Commissioner of Income-tax v. Ramnarain Sons Ltd. the company was a dealer in shanes and also carried on the business of acqiring managing agencies of other companies.

Precedent Relied : The learned Chief Justice then referred to a judgment of this court reported in Kishan Prasad &amp; Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, where it was observed" It seems that the object of the assessee company in buying shares was purely to obtain the managing agency of the third mill which no doubt would have been an asset of an enduring nature and would have brought them profits but there was from the inception no intention whatever on the part of the assessee company to re-sell the shares either at a profit or otherwise deal in them.

Precedent Referred : Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax ?

Precedent Relied : In Oriental Investment Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax that principle was reiterated, and it was held that the object for which a company was formed did not invest the deal with the characteristics of a trade in shares, but that other circumstances along with that fact must be considered to find out the real object of a particular ventureBefore we deal with the present case, one other case of this court may be noticed.

Precedent Relied : In Rajputana Textiles (Agencies) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax the converse conclusion was reached.

Precedent Referred : Relying upon the wellknown case of Aron Salomon v. Salomon &amp; Co. Ltd., it was argued before us that each company must be viewed as a separate entity, and that the intention of one company could not be attributed to another company, even though the proprietorship of the companies might be the same.

