Precedent : 7. We have heard Mr. V. Shekhar, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellants and Mr. Rupinder Singh Suri, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India and Mr. V.K. Shukla, learned Senior Advocate for Respondent No. 4. The Appellants contended that the High Court committed an error in directing the review DPC to be conducted without hearing them. The Appellants were not even made parties in the Writ Petition. It is well settled law that persons who are likely to be affected have to be heard before any order likely to affect them is passed. According to the Appellants, Respondent No.4 continued to serve in the State of Uttar Pradesh by virtue of an interim order passed by this Court. Till the year 2016, Respondent No.4 did not make any request for consideration of his case for induction to IAS cadre from the State of Uttarakhand. Moreover, Respondent No.4 did not protest when the Appellants were being inducted in the IAS cadre. As Respondent No.4 was not in the State of Uttarakhand when the Appellants were being promoted to IAS cadre, he cannot raise any grievance at this stage. It was further submitted on behalf of the Appellants that Respondent No. 4 was considered for promotion to IAS cadre while he was working in the State of Uttar Pradesh. Respondent No.4 contended that the order passed by the High Court which is innocuous in nature should not be interfered with by this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. It was submitted on his behalf that his allotment to the State of Uttarakhand is with effect from 09.11.2000 and he is entitled to get all the benefits including his seniority. Admittedly, juniors to Respondent No.4 were promoted earlier than him. The request made by Respondent No.4 to review his seniority in the SCS Officers is legitimate. It was pointed out on behalf of Respondent No.4 that the Union of India also supports his plea that a review DPC has to be conducted. It was pointed out on behalf of the Union of India that the final allocation of SCS Officers was delayed due to pendency of the SLPs in this Court. After dismissal of the SLPs, final allocation was made. On the basis of the order passed by the High Court in the Writ Petition filed by Respondent No.4, a decision was taken by the Central Government to hold a review DPC which could not be completed in view of certain objections taken by the State of Uttarakhand.

