Precedent : "Candidates must write the papers in their own hand. In no circumstances will they be allowed the help of a scribe to write the answers for them. The Persons with Benchmark Disabilities in the categories of blindness, locomotor disability (both arm affected - BA) and cerebral palsy will be provided the facility of scribe, if desired by the person. In case of other category of Persons with Benchmark Disabilities as defined under section 2(r) of the RPWD Act, 2016, the facility of scribe will be allowed to such candidates on production of a certificate to the effect that the person concerned has physical limitation to write, and scribe is essential to write examination on behalf from the Chief Medical Officer/Civil Surgeon/Medical Superintendent of a Government Health Care institution as per proforma at Appendix - V. The Persons with Benchmark Disabilities in the category of blindness, locomotor disability (both arm affected - BA) and cerebral palsy will be allowed Compensatory Time of twenty minutes per hour of the examination In case of other categories of Persons with Benchmar k1 disabilities, this facility will be provided on production of a certificate to the effect that the person concerned has physical limitation to write from the Chief Medical Officer/Civil Surgeon/Medical Superintendent of a Government Health Care institution as per proforma at Appendix-V."

Precedent : 34. There is a critical qualitative difference between the barriers faced by persons with disabilities and other marginalized groups. In order to enable persons with disabilities to lead a life of equal dignity and worth, it is not enough to mandate that discrimination against them is impermissible. That is necessary, but not sufficient. We must equally ensure, as a society, that we provide them the additional support and facilities that are necessary for them to offset the impact of their disability. This Court in its judgment in Jeeja Ghosh v. Union of India (2016) 7 SCC 761, noted that a key component of equality is the principle of reasonable differentiation and specific measures must be undertaken, recognizing the different needs of persons with disabilities, to pave the way for substantive equality. Justice A K Sikri stated in the above judgement:

Precedent : 35. The principle of reasonable accommodation captures the positive obligation of the State and private parties to provide additional support to persons with disabilities to facilitate their full and effective participation in society. The concept of reasonable accommodation is developed in section (H) below. For the present, suffice it to say that, for a person with disability, the constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights to equality, the six freedoms and the right to life under Article 21 will ring hollow if they are not given this additional support that helps make these rights real and meaningful for them. Reasonable accommodation is the instrumentality - are an obligation as a society - to enable the disabled to enjoy the constitutional guarantee of equality and non-discrimination. In this context, it would be apposite to remember Justice R M Lodha's (as he then was) observation in Justice Sunanda Bhandare Foundation v. Union of India (2018) 2 SCC 397, where he stated:

Precedent : 38. While most of the obligations under the RPwD Act 2016 are cast upon the government or local authorities, the Act and rules made under it have also imposed certain obligations on the private sector. The role of the private sector in the market has increased manifold since the advent of liberalisation in India. The RPwD Act 2016 recognizes that with the burgeoning role of the private sector in generating employment in India, an active responsibility has to be cast upon private employers to create an inclusive workforce by providing persons with disabilities equal opportunities in the job market. However, the guarantee of equal opportunity must be accompanied by the provision of reasonable accommodation. The Rules framed under the RPwD Act 2016 stipulate that private establishments shall not discriminate against persons with disability on the ground of disability. Rule 3 (1) of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017 It is to be noted that the definition of discrimination under Section 2(h) of the RPwD Act, 2016 includes denial of reasonable accommodation. Private employers are mandated to frame an equal opportunity policy Section 21 of the RPwD Act, 2016 read with Rule 8 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017. Equal opportunity policies for establishments having more than 20 employees are required to include provisions relating to (i) appointment of liaison officers in establishments to look after the recruitment of persons with disabilities and provisions of facilities and amenities for such employees Rule 8(3) (e) of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017; (ii) identification of posts/vacancies for disabled persons Rule 8(3) (b) of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017; (iii) provision of additional facilities and benefits such as training facilities, assistive devices, barrier free accessibility, preference in transfer and promotion, allotment of residential accommodation and special leave Rule 8 (3) sub-clauses (c) and (d) of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017. The RPwD Act 2016 further provides that private establishments have to conform with accessibility norms stipulated by the government with respect to building plans Section 44 of the RPwD Act, 2016. The RPwD Act 2016 also provides that 5 % of the workforce of establishments receiving incentives from the appropriate government would be comprised of persons having benchmark disability Section 35 of RPwD Act, 2016. This Court in Union of India v. National Federation of the Blind (2013) 10 SCC 772 has recognized that employment opportunities play an instrumental role in empowering persons with disabilities. Justice P. Sathasivam (as he then was) observed:

Precedent : 50. The concept of reasonable accommodation as a component of the equality guarantee has been recognized in a consistent line of precedents of this Court. Rajive Raturi v. Union of India and Ors., 2017 (14) SCALE 412, Jeeja Ghosh and Anr. v. Union of India and Ors. (2016) 7 SCC 761 and Disabled Rights Group and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors., (2018) 2 SCC 397. Illustratively, in Syed Bashir-ud-din Qadri v. Nazir Ahmed Shah (2010) 3 SCC 603., this Court, speaking through Justice Altamas Kabir, held that a person having cerebral palsy should be given access to an external electronic aid as a reasonable accommodation to offset the impact of his inability to write on the blackboard. The Court held as follows:

Precedent : 51. A discordant note struck by this Court having a direct bearing on the principle of reasonable accommodation finds expression in a two judge Bench decision of this Court in the case of V Surendra Mohan v. State of Tamil Nadu (2019) 4 SCC 237. ("Mohan"). The proceedings before this Court arose from a judgment of the Madras High Court. At issue was the decision of the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission "TNPC" to impose a ceiling of 40-50% visual/hearing impairment to be eligible to be appointed as a Civil Judge (Junior Division). Differently stated, a person whose visual/hearing impairment exceeded 50% was disqualified from being eligible for the said post. In the said case, the appellant's disability was 70%. The appellant's name was not included in the list of registered numbers who were provisionally admitted to the oral test. He challenged this in the Madras High Court. By its judgment dated 5 June 2015, the Madras High Court held that, as per the decision of the Government dated 8 August 2014 and notification issued by the TNPC dated 26 August 2014, those partially blind with 40%-50% disability were only eligible and the appellant having 70% disability was not eligible to participate in the selection.

Precedent : 55. As we have noted previously, the cornerstone of the reasonable accommodation principle is making adjustments that enable a disabled person to effectively counter the barriers posed by their disability. Conspicuous by its absence is any reasonable accommodation analysis whatsoever by this Court in Mohan. Such an analysis would have required a consideration of the specific accommodations needed, the cost of providing them, reference to the efficacy with which other judges with more than 40-50% visual/hearing impairment in India and abroad can discharge judicial duties after being provided the necessary accommodations, amongst other factors. In holding that the ceiling was reasonable on the application of the principle of reasonable accommodation, the ratio as expounded fails as "distinct exhortatory dimension that must always be kept in mind while determining whether an adjustment to assist a disabled person to overcome the disadvantage that she or he has in comparison to an able-bodied person is reasonable." First Group Plc v. Paulley [2017] UKSC 4, para 117 [Lord Kerr - partly dissenting]. It is persons with disabilities who have been the victim of this lapse.

