Precedent : (5) It is to be further noted that obviously the 2nd high sea sale agreement has not come into operation when the sale is taking place. Thus there is no case in claiming that the transfer of documents was effected by virtue of the said agreement itself. As. was held by the Honourable Apex Court in the case of Tata Iron & Steel Co Ltd, Bombay Vs. S.R. Sarkar and others 11 STC 655 - a sale will be reckoned as a sale on completion of such sale and a mere contract of sale is not a sale within the definition of sale in Section 2(a). Therefore, it is to be observed that the sale has not taken place in the manner contemplated in the agreement. The sale in fact took place after - customs clearance only. Thus, there is no nexus to the said agreement."

Precedent : 14.4.6. With reference to a Division Bench decision of Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. State of Andhra Pradesh: 1999 (106) ELT 23, an argument was advanced on behalf of the appellant that the name on the bill of entry was irrelevant because the name of the importer alone would be recorded in it, even if the transfer of title deeds was effected before filing of the bill of entry and assessment of duty. The High Court took note of the principal issue involved in the said case of Minerals and Metals and held that the question, as to whether name on the bill of entry was relevant or not and as to whether the name of importer alone would be recorded therein, even if transfer by title deed was effected before filing of bill of entry and assessment of duty, did not arise for consideration therein. Therefore, the observations occurring in said decision as regards the relevance of name in the bill of entry were held to be not of a binding declaration of law.

Precedent : 14.6. Another argument advanced on behalf of the appellant before the High Court had been that the principles enunciated in the said Division Bench decision of Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Minerals and Metals and another decision of Madras High Court got tacit approval in the decision of this Court in the case of Hotel Ashoka (Indian Tourist Development Corporation Ltd.). v. Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes and Anr.: (2012) 3 SCC 204. The High Court distinguished the said decision of this Court while pointing out that it related to the goods sold at duty-free shops which are beyond the customs frontier of India; the goods sold thereat must be said to have been sold before having crossed the customs frontiers of India; and consequently, the sale of goods thereat is in the course of import.

Precedent : 16.2. Elaborating on the submissions, learned counsel has referred to Article 286 of the Constitution of India while pointing out that it prohibits the State Government from imposing sales tax on sales made in the course of import or export; and the Parliament could formulate the principles to determine as to when a sale takes place in the course of import or export. The learned counsel has referred to Section 5 of the CST Act, laying down as to when a sale is treated to have taken place in the course of import or export and has referred to sub-section (2) thereof, providing that sale of goods is deemed to take place in the course of import of the goods into the territory of India only if the sale occasions such import or is effected by a transfer of document of title to the goods before they have crossed the customs frontiers of India. Learned counsel has also referred to Section 3 of the CST Act and the decision of this Court in the case of State of Maharashtra v. Embee Corporation, Bombay: (1997) 7 SCC 190 to submit that the terms 'sale occasioning movement of goods' and 'sale occasioning import of goods' carry the same meaning insofar as Sections 3 and 5 of the CST Act are concerned; and that the words "sale of goods" in Section 3 and the words "contract of sale" in Section 4(2) of the CST Act have been assigned the same meaning, which is wider to the meaning of sale in the general law. While also relying on the decision of this Court in Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., Bombay v. S.R. Sarkar and Ors.: AIR 1961 SC 65, the learned counsel has submitted that in both the situations where sale occasions movement of goods and sale occasions import of goods, the contract of sale or a covenant of a contract of sale triggers the movement from either one State to another or from outside India into India.

Precedent : 16.3. Learned counsel for the appellant has contended that to qualify under Section 5(2) of the CST Act, the essential ingredients of high sea sales would be of the transfer of document of title and transfer of goods to be made while the goods are on high seas. With reference to the definition of term "crossing the customs frontiers of India", as occurring in Section 2(ab) of the CST Act, learned counsel has pointed out that this term means crossing the limits of the area of customs station in which imported goods or exported goods are ordinarily kept before clearance by customs authorities. Then, with reference to Section 2(4) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 Hereinafter referred to as 'the Sale of Goods Act'. and the decisions of this Court in J.V. Gokal & Co. (Private) Ltd. v. Assistant Collector of Sales-Tax (Inspection) and Ors: (1960) 2 SCR 852 and Minerals & Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. Sales Tax Officer and Ors: (1998) 7 SCC 19 Hereinafter this case of Minerals & Metals has also been referred to as 'Orissa case', in order to maintain the distinction with the other decision of Andhra Pradesh High Court carrying the same first name, which was referred to by the High Court in the impugned judgment., learned counsel has submitted that the transfer of bill of lading signifies transfer of title in the goods. As regards transfer before the goods crossing customs frontiers of India, the learned counsel has referred to the decision of this Court in Hotel Ashoka (supra) to submit that when the goods are kept in the bonded warehouse, they cannot be said to have crossed the customs frontiers of India.

Precedent : 16.5. The learned counsel has also contended that the transaction in question is sought to be taxed as inter-State sale within the ambit of Section 3(a) of the CST Act, for being not covered under Section 5(2) of the CST Act but, for a transaction to be covered under Section 3(a) of the CST Act, the agreement of sale must trigger the movement of goods and the goods must move between one State to another within India as a consequence of such agreement. The learned counsel has referred to the decision of this Court in State of Travancore-Cochin and Ors. v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashewnut Factory, Quilon: AIR 1953 SC 333 and has strenuously argued that in the present case, the goods moved into India from outside as a result of the quadripartite agreement; that the inter-State movement within India was only a part of one whole integrated transaction of sale; that when a part of integrated import transaction involves movement of goods within India, the department cannot selectively question only one part of the transaction; and that the quadripartite agreement, clearly establishing the privity amongst the parties involved, could not have been ignored in part and the Indian leg of the transaction could not have been dissected in order to be taxed.

Precedent : 16.6. In another leg of principal submissions, learned counsel has contended that the High Court has fallen in error in using the bill of entry to determine the ownership of goods. Learned counsel would submit that the ownership of goods could only be determined under the Sale of Goods Act read with the Indian Contract Act; that the customs duty is collected from the person having possession of goods at the time of importation, who need not be the owner of good, as appearing from the definition of "importer" under the Customs Act, which includes "owner and any other person"; that in distinction to the customs duty, sales tax is a tax on the transaction of sales or purchase when ownership of goods is transferred and the questions as to when does the sale take place and who is the owner of goods would be determined only under the Sale of Goods Act, and not under the Customs Act. With a strong reliance on the decision of this Court in the case of Union of India and Anr. v. Sampat Raj Dugar and Anr.: (1992) 2 SCC 66, learned counsel has submitted that the definition of importer in the Customs Act only indicates the person who is in possession of goods at the time of filing of bill of entry but does not indicate the title to the goods.

Precedent : 16.8. In the alternative part, learned counsel has contended that the High Court, despite indicating its disinclination to reappreciate the evidence in writ jurisdiction, has proceeded to render findings on fact rather than relegating the matter to the appellate authority. While relying on the decision in the case of Star Paper Mills Ltd. v. Union of India and Ors.: 1995 Supp (4) SCC 674, the learned counsel would submit that the appellant may be allowed to contest the matter in the statutory appeal, particularly in view of the facts involved.

Precedent : 22.1. In the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of J. V. Gokal & Co. (supra), the petitioner company entered into two contracts on 24.03.1954 and 15.04.1954 with Government of India for selling two consignments of sugar - One of 9,500 long tons of Peruvian origin and the other of 25,000 metric tons of continental origin. The petitioner placed orders with dealers in foreign countries. Some weeks before the vessel carrying the goods in question arrived at the Bombay harbour i.e., when the vessels were on the high seas, the Government of India received the documents of title, including bills of lading, pertaining to the sugar purchased by them and paid the price to the petitioner. After the goods reached the port, they were unloaded, taken delivery of, and cleared by the Government of India after paying the requisite customs duties. For the assessment year 1954-55, the petitioner was assessed to sales tax where the Sales Tax Officer deducted the price of the said two sales from the petitioner's turnover. However, on 31.01.1958, the Assistant Collector of Sales Tax issued notice to the petitioner, proposing to review the said assessment. The petitioner filed its objections contending, inter alia, that the sales had taken place in the course of import and therefore they were not liable to sales tax. The first respondent rejected the contentions of the petitioner and held that sales tax was payable in respect of said two transactions. The petitioner questioned the demand notice consequently issued against it by way of the petition in this Court. It was contented, inter alia, that the sales in question were not liable to sales tax inasmuch as they took place in course of import of the goods into the territory of India. This Court examined the questions as to what does the phrase "in the course of the import of the goods into the territory of India" convey and when could it be said that a sale has taken place in the course of import journey. This Court referred to various decisions including the opinions expressed in the case of Shanmugha Vilas Cashew Nut Factory (supra) and said as under:-

Precedent : 10. The next question is, when can it be said that a sale takes place in the course of import journey? This Court in State of Travancore-Cochin v. The Bombay Co. Ltd., held that a sale which occasioned the export was a sale that took place in the course of export of the goods. If A, a merchant in India, sells his goods to a merchant in London and puts through the transaction by transporting the goods by a ship to London, the said sale which occasioned the export is exempted under Art. 286(1)(b) of the Constitution from the levy of sales-tax. The same principle applies to a converse case of goods which occasioned the import of the goods into India. This Court again in State of Travancore-Cochhin and Ors. v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashewnut Factory extended the doctrine to a case of sale or a purchase of goods effected within the State by transfer of shipping documents while the goods were in the course of transit. The decision dealt with three types of purchases viz. (i) purchases made in the local marker; (ii) purchases made in the neighbouring districts of an adjacent State; and (iii) imports from Africa. The imports from Africa consisted of two groups - one group consisted of goods that were purchased when they were on the high seas and shipped from the African ports to Cochin or Quilon: we are not concerned with the other group. In the said case some commission agents at Bombay arranged for the purchase on behalf of the assessee, got delivery of the shipping documents at Bombay through a bank which advanced money against the shipping documents and collected the same from the assesses at destination. This Court, by a majority, held that, in respect of the purchases falling under the first group of imports, the commission agents acted merely as agents of the respondents therein and that the said purchases occasioned the import and therefore came within the exemption. That was not a case where the goods were sold by an importer in India to a third party when the goods were on the high seas. It was a case where a party in Cochin purchased goods which were on the high seas through his agent at Bombay and the agent paid the price through a bank against the shipping documents. But the learned Judge, Patanjali Sastri, C.J., expressing the majority view, considered the scope of the exemption in all its aspects and summarized the conclusions thus p. 69 :

Precedent : 23.2. This takes us to the decisions of this Court in Minerals & Metals (Orissa case) and in J. V. Gokal & Co. (supra).

Precedent : 23.2.2. The law declared in J. V. Gokal & Co. (supra) that bill of lading represents the goods and its transfer operates as transfer of goods; and delivery of bill of lading while the goods are afloat is equivalent to the delivery of goods (as duly applied by this Court in Minerals & Metals) is neither of any doubt nor could be a matter of debate. However, in the said case of J. V. Gokal & Co. too, on facts, it was found by the Court that the petitioner, pursuant to the earlier contract with the Government, delivered the shipping documents including the bill of lading to the Government against payment when the goods were on high seas. It was also noticed that after the goods reached the port, they were unloaded, taken delivery of, and cleared by the Government (the end-buyer) after paying the requisite customs duties. Significantly, in J. V. Gokal & Co., the Constitution Bench went on to scrutinize the terms of contract to ascertain whether they disclosed any intention of the parties that notwithstanding delivery of bill of lading against payment, the property in goods should not pass and then, the Court found no such intention being indicated. It was only after such finding on facts the Court held that the sale of goods by the petitioner to the Government took place when the goods were on the high seas and hence, the sales took place in the course of import into India.

Precedent : 23.2.3. Noteworthy common features in the decisions of this Court in J. V. Gokal & Co. and Orissa case of Minerals & Metals (supra) had been that pursuant to a previous contract with the end-buyer, the seller concerned arranged for importation of goods; and transferred the property in goods in favour of the end-buyer by endorsement of bill of lading when the goods were on high seas. Coupled with these, another common feature had been that in both those cases, the goods in question, upon reaching the port of destination, were taken delivery of, and cleared by the end-buyer after paying the requisite customs duties. Those had not been the cases like the present one where the seller purportedly acted as an intermediary and even after alleged transfer of bill of lading when the goods were on high seas, filed the bill of entry for home consumption at the port of destination and got the goods cleared from the customs.

Precedent : 24. Apart from the decisions so cited, for taking into comprehension the nuances of 'sale in the course of import' with involvement of an intermediary, we may take note of the case of K. Gopinathan Nair and Ors. v. State of Kerala: (1997) 10 SSC 1 wherein, after a detailed reference to various Constitution Bench decisions, this Court has expounded on the factors to be reckoned for determining as to whether a particular sale or purchase could be deemed to have taken place in the course of import. We may point out that the decision in this case of K. Gopinathan Nair had been by a 3-Judge Bench of this Court where the learned Judges differed in their views on the question as to whether the transactions in question were in the course of import and, therefore, immune under Section 5(2) of the CST Act. We shall refer to this decision and implication of different views therein over the factual setup of the present case in the later part of this judgment. At present, we may reproduce the relevant part of the decision of majority, delineating the basic factors which are germane to determination of the question as to whether a particular sale had been in the course of import or not, as under:-

Precedent : 26.1. However, the suggestions by the appellant do not remain as innocuous and over-simplified as projected, for the reason that in each of these transactions, when the goods in question reached the port at Visakhapatnam, the appellant carried out the proceedings envisaged by the Customs Act and filed a bill of entry for warehousing and thereafter, filed another bill of entry for home consumption (ex-bond); and on the basis of such bills of entry, the appellant was duly assessed for customs duty. Admittedly, after the goods were cleared for home consumption, they moved from the State of Andhra Pradesh to different States where the respective end-buyers were situated; and the appellant raised debit notes on the end-buyers. In these transactions, the goods in question, upon reaching the port of destination, were not cleared by the end-buyers after paying the requisite customs duties, as had been the fact situation in the case of J. V. Gokal & Co. as also in Orissa case of Minerals & Metals (supra). While examining the question pertinent if the appellant acted merely as an intermediary or name-lender through whom the import was effected and merely acted as an agent for and on behalf of the Indian importer that is, the end-buyer, the significant facts of the present case cannot be overlooked that in relation to the goods in question, only the appellant filed the bill of entry for warehousing as also the bill of entry for home consumption and was assessed to customs duty and further that before the customs authorities, there was no suggestion that the goods in question had already been transferred, on high seas, to the alleged real importer. Obviously, on the facts of the present case, the effect of dealings of the appellant before the customs authorities at Visakhapatnam with filing the bill of entry for home consumption need to be examined.

