Precedent : 4.2. The aforesaid position led to the proceedings in this Court, which were dealt with in a batch of petitions led by Writ Petition (Civil) No. 744 of 2017: Chitra Sharma and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors. Final judgment therein has since been reported as (2018) 18 SCC 575 wherein, several orders were passed by this Court from time to time, inter alia, with directions to JAL, the holding company of JIL, for making deposits in the Court, particularly looking to the claim of refund being made by some of the homebuyers. While finally disposing of the matters on 09.08.2018, this Court took note of several factors, including the nature of projects, interests of a large number of homebuyers and unanimity amongst all the concerned that liquidation of the corporate debtor shall not be in the interest of any stakeholder. This Court also took note of the fact that even the statutorily extended period for concluding the CIRP was over but, there had been a relevant supervening event where, by way of an Amendment Ordinance that came into force on 06.06.2018, the doubts about the status of homebuyers were removed and they were expressly recognised as financial creditors. Having regard to the facts and circumstances, this Court issued a slew of directions for ensuring complete justice in the cause, while exercising its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, by providing for further extended period for conclusion of CIRP; for constitution of CoC afresh; and permitting the IRP to invite fresh expressions of interest for the submission of resolution plans. This Court also provided that the amount of INR 750 crores, 'which has been deposited in this Court by JAL/JIL shall together with the interest accrued thereon' be transferred to NCLT, which would abide by the directions as may be issued by NCLT.

Precedent : 4.3. While the proceedings thus restored by this Court were pending, further question cropped up as to the manner of reckoning the voting percentage of homebuyers in CoC. Two members of NCLT differed in their opinion and the matter was referred to the third member. In the meantime, IDBI Bank sought exclusion, of the period of pendency of the application for such clarification as to the voting percentage, from the period of 270 days for completion of CIRP. While this application was pending, NCLT called upon the concerned parties to file reply on the necessity to proceed further with the CIRP, for considering the resolution plan received from the bidder, subject to the outcome of the pending application. The orders passed by NCLT in relation to these aspects were challenged before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi Hereinafter also referred to as 'the Appellate Authority' or 'NCLAT'. The Appellate Authority, by its judgment dated 30.07.2019, provided for exclusion of 90 days for the purpose of counting the total period of 270 days and disposed of the appeals with some more observations. This gave rise to further appeals in this Court, led by Civil Appeal No. 8437 of 2019 [@ D No. 27229 of 2019]: Jaiprakash Associates Limited and Anr. v. IDBI Bank Ltd. and Anr. Final judgment therein has since been reported as (2020) 3 SCC 328, which were decided on 06.11.2019. Therein, this Court found that delay in completion of CIRP was attributable to the process of law and neither the homebuyers nor any other financial creditor was to be blamed for pendency of the proceedings; and under the plenary powers, this Court passed yet further orders so as to ensure that an attempt was made for revival of the corporate debtor by submission of revised resolution plans.

Precedent : 4.4. Running parallel to the proceedings noticed hereinabove, there had been another set of proceedings involving two issues: one, relating to an application filed by IRP before the Adjudicating Authority seeking orders for avoidance of the certain transactions, whereby several parcels of land were put under mortgage with the lenders of JAL, the holding company of JIL; and second, involving the claim of two of the lender banks of JAL to be included in the category of financial creditors of JIL. These two aspects eventually came up for adjudication of this Court in another batch of appeals led by Civil Appeal Nos. 8512-8527 of 2019: Anuj Jain, Interim Resolution Professional for Jaypee Infratech Limited v. Axis Bank Limited etc. etc., which were decided on 26.02.2020 Final judgment therein has since been reported as Jaypee Infratech Ltd. Interim Resolution Professional v. Axis Bank Ltd. and Ors.: (2020) 8 SCC 401. This Court held that six out of seven transactions in question were preferential within the meaning of Section 43 of the Code and the directions by NCLT for avoidance of such transactions were upheld. On the second issue, this Court held that the applicant banks were not the financial creditors of the corporate debtor JIL and the respective orders passed in that regard by NCLT were restored.

Precedent : (ii) As to whether the Adjudicating Authority has erred in not approving the mechanism provided in the resolution plan for transfer, of the concessionaire's rights and obligations under the Concession Agreement with YEIDA, to the SPVs proposed to be incorporated; and has also erred in modifying the relevant stipulations?

Precedent : 40.4. The reasons pleaded by JAL/JIL to excuse their failure to complete the housing projects such as the stay order granted by the National Green Tribunal have been rejected by the orders of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission as there was no stay. One such order was passed by NCDRC on 2-5-2016, in Developers Township Property Owners Welfare Society v. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd.;

Precedent : 39.2. In the summary of the implementation process, by way of a flow chart, various steps have been indicated which include formation of different SPVs; raising of fresh debts of about INR 2,000 crores by securitisation of Yamuna Expressway; transfer of rights of Yamuna Expressway against equity shares and debt disbursement; transfer of 1,526 acres of land worth INR 5,001 crores, bank loan of INR 5,000 crores and issuance of equity of INR 1 crore; diversification of JHL; infusion of INR 120 crores equity etc. etc.

Precedent : 45. It was submitted on behalf of JAL that the resolution plan could not be approved for the reasons that it was being used as a device for enrichment of NBCC at the cost of the corporate debtor where NBCC was attempting to acquire JIL having worth of about INR 8,257 crores for a petty sum of INR 120 crores; that the resolution plan was a contingent one where NBCC reserved its right to withdraw if the said sum of INR 750 crores was not treated as part of the resolution plan and JIL was not discharged of PMLA and other investigations; that the approval was inconsistent with Section 11(4)(g) of RERA; that simultaneous voting on two resolution plans was not permissible in law; that the resolution applicant wrongly suggested that there was no haircut in the proposed settlement of dues of financial creditors because the haircut was as far high as INR 6,101 crores which was 62.36% of the debt of INR 9,783 crores. These contentions were countered by IRP with the submissions that the promoters of JAL and JIL had no locus to question the offer accepted by the CoC and as per the decision of this Court in the case of Maharashtra Seamless Limited v. Padmanabhan Venkatesh and Ors. (C.A. No. 4242 of 2019) Since reported as (2020) 11 SCC 467, no provision in the Code required the resolution applicant to match the liquidation value; that no provision in the Code prevented simultaneous voting over two plans; and that as per the decision of this Court in the case of Pioneer Urban Land and Infrastructure Ltd. & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors.: (2019) 8 SCC 416, RERA and IBC co-exist and have to be interpreted harmoniously and in the event of a clash, RERA must give way to IBC. It was also submitted that when the homebuyers who were entitled to raise RERA objections had themselves voted in favour of the plan, the promoters/directors could not raise any grievance. There was a question of claim of the corporate debtor against JAL, being the amount given as mobilisation advance on which, there was a discrepancy in the accounting, but it was admitted on behalf of JAL that an amount of INR 274 crores was net receivable by JIL from JAL. To this, the NCLT directed payment of the said amount to JIL and for reconciliation of the account as regards the remaining dues. The NCLT had also brushed aside the submissions regarding the contingent nature of the plan with reference to its finding on the issue related to the said deposited sum of INR 750 crores and Section 32A inserted to the Code by way of amendment with effect from 28.12.2019. The relevant observations of NCLT read as under: -

Precedent : 75. With regard to RERA issue, the IRP submits that the Hon'ble Supreme court in para 28 of Pioneer Urban Land & Infrastructure Limited & anr. Vs. Union of India & Ors. (WP (c) no. 43 of 2019) held that RERA and IBC must be held to co-exist and be interpreted harmoniously and in the event of clash, RERA must give way to IBC.

Precedent : 46. Another major part of objections, in terms of magnitude and implication, came up from the dissenting financial creditor ICICI Bank. It was submitted by this lender bank that being a dissenting financial creditor, it was entitled to receive payment as per the liquidation value in terms of Section 30(2)(b) of the Code read with Regulation 38(1)(b) of CIRP Regulations but in the resolution plan, it was sought to be provided only the land and equity in the SPVs proposed to be incorporated; and such a provision in the resolution plan was entirely impermissible. It was also submitted that while the assenting financial creditors were allowed to receive upfront payment of INR 300 crores on the basis of fresh debts raised by Expressway but the same benefit was not being extended to the dissenting financial creditors. The NCLT noted the star argument of the learned counsel for ICICI Bank that distribution of equity or the land parcels to the dissenting financial creditors does not satisfy the requirement of "payment" under Section 30(2) of the Code read with Regulation 38(1)(b) of the CIRP Regulations; and such payment has to be a liquidated sum, as stated under Section 53 of the Code. Per contra, it was contended on behalf of the resolution applicant and the IRP that it was nowhere envisaged in Section 30(2) of the Code that payment of liquidation value to dissenting financial creditors has to be in cash; that even Regulation 38(1)(b) of the CIRP Regulations only provided for the priority of payment to the dissenting financial creditors before the assenting financial creditors and the mode of payment to be in cash was not mentioned; that when the assenting financial creditors were not being paid in cash and had accepted equity and land parcels, payment to the dissenting financial creditors in cash would cause prejudice to the rights of the assenting financial creditors. Meaning of the word "payment" in Black's Law Dictionary was also cited and it was argued that the money or other valuable thing delivered to discharge the obligation is to be construed as payment under Section 30(2) of the Code.

Precedent : 47.1. The NCLT noticed that as per the said CA, the concessionaire (JIL) was to bear the acquisition cost for the project land given to it and in consideration, the concessionaire would obtain the right to develop land for commercial exploitation and the right to operate the Expressway and collect toll for a period of 36 years; and after the expiry of 36 years from the grant of concession, the Expressway shall revert to YEIDA. As to the land for development, it was given on lease for 90 years. It was essentially submitted on behalf of YEIDA that the question, of additional compensation of the land acquired, cropped up with the directions of the Allahabad High Court; and that the liability in regard to the additional compensation in relation to the land acquired and leased to JIL was that of the corporate debtor JIL. It was also pointed out that the question of such additional compensation by JIL was subjected to arbitration proceedings where an award was made to the effect that the corporate debtor need not pay this amount of additional compensation but the award has been questioned by YEIDA in the proceedings under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 Hereinafter also referred as to 'the Arbitration Act'.-It appears from the corrigendum dated 17.03.2020 and the submissions of the parties that the issue is pending before the Court of District Judge, Gautam Budh Nagar. YEIDA stated its objection to the stipulation in the resolution plan that in case of the award being overruled, YEIDA would collect the amount of additional compensation from the end-users of the project land. It was submitted in this regard that in the CA, two payment components were present - one being of acquisition cost payable by the concessionaire and another being of lease rent, which could be paid by the sub-lessee/end-user as the case may be. It was submitted that given such components, the IRP or the resolution applicant could not insist that YEIDA has to collect the acquisition cost directly from the end-users. It was also submitted that even if the land utilised for Expressway was to revert to YEIDA after 36 years, the CA nevertheless provided as key components that the concessionaire would collect toll for this period and has to bear all the cost including the cost of acquisition; and there was no exemption as regards the land of Expressway. It was also submitted that the resolution applicant cannot split the transferred land into two and say that the payment of additional compensation would be applicable to the land used for development alone. It was further submitted that in view of Clause 18.1 of CA, in case of the necessity to transfer the concessionaire's rights and obligations to an SPV, there has to be necessary documentation involving YEIDA, the concessionaire and the SPV incorporated, so that YEIDA could keep exercising its rights over the SPV concerned; and the resolution applicant or CoC could not have unilaterally transferred the rights and obligations of the corporate debtor to an SPV without the consent of YEIDA. A decision of this Court in the case of Embassy Property Development Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Karnataka and Ors.: 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1542 was also referred to submit that IBC will not have overriding effect on every enactment which is applicable to the transactions related to the corporate debtor. It was further submitted that the requirement of withdrawal of arbitration case could not be thrust upon YEIDA under the cover of the plan; and for the resolution plan having set out so many provisions curtailing the rights held by YEIDA, the same was required to be rejected. However, the Adjudicating Authority also noticed that despite such objections, the counsel appearing on behalf of YEIDA submitted that since the project was for public cause, it would have no objection for approval of the resolution plan provided necessary changes were made in it 'by removing the fall outs from the concession agreement'.

Precedent : 47.2. In regard to this issue relating to the objections and submissions on behalf of YEIDA, the NCLT was of the view that CoC should not have approved the resolution plan stating that the additional compensation would be collected from the end-users; and proceeded to modulate the terms of the resolution plan to read that YEIDA shall have the right to collect the acquisition cost through the SPVs concerned. As regards the issue as to whether additional compensation need not be paid with regard to the Expressway for the same would revert to YEIDA after 36 years, the NCLT found it appropriate to read down the resolution plan as leaving it open to the parties to have proper recourse over this issue in the competent forum when occasion so arise. The NCLT also observed that the Concession Agreement was based on the statute created by the State Government and, therefore, any violation of terms and conditions of the same would be the violation of law in force. The NCLT, however, again recorded the submissions on behalf of YEIDA that their endeavour was only for compliance of the terms and conditions of CA in order to ensure proper monitoring on realisation of dues and supervision over the work of corporate debtors or SPVs but not for rejection of the resolution plan. The relevant observations, findings and directions of YEIDA in regard to this issue read as under: -

Precedent : 120. To iron out all these creases and to make this resolution plan viable, we hereby direct that the resolution plan shall be read as YEIDA has right to collect acquisition cost through the SPVs concerned.

Precedent : 123. On transfer of concessionaire's rights and obligations to SPVs, as per the concession agreement, it is clear that this Corporate Debtor is a concessionaire, for the first time concessionaire having proposed to transfer its rights and obligations to the aforesaid two SPVs, we are of the view that documents shall be executed between the concessionaire, YEIDA and each of the SPVs. At last we must say that the concession Agreement is based on the statute created by the State Government, therefore any violation of the terms and conditions of the concession agreement is violation of the law in force as contemplated under section 30(2) of the Code, it has been decided as above.

Precedent : 124. Despite YEIDA counsel representing the State Government Authorities with regard to its rights, the counsel has categorically mentioned that YEIDA's endeavour is only for compliance of the terms and conditions of concession agreement so that the State Agencies will have proper monitoring on realization of its dues and will have proper supervision over the works of the Corporate Debtor or its SPVs, but not to ensure that this resolution plan is rejected by this Bench on the grounds aforementioned."

Precedent : (c) As regards the objections by YEIDA, the Adjudicating Authority held that YEIDA shall have the right to collect the acquisition cost through the SPVs proposed to be incorporated so as to make the resolution plan compliant with the terms of the Concession Agreement; however, the Adjudicating Authority refrained from adjudicating on the issue of additional compensation in relation to the land under Expressway and left it for the parties to take appropriate action at the appropriate stage. The Adjudicating Authority also held that for transfer of rights and obligations to the two SPVs, necessary documents shall be executed involving the concessionaire (JIL), YEIDA and the SPV concerned. These alterations were ordered by the Adjudicating Authority 'to iron out all these creases and to make this resolution plan viable'.

Precedent : 63.2. In the judgment delivered on 25.01.2019 in the case of Swiss Ribbons Private Limited and Anr. v. Union of India and Ors.: (2019) 4 SCC 17 Hereinafter also referred to as the case of 'Swiss Ribbons', this Court traversed through the historical background and scheme of the Code in the wake of challenge to the constitutional validity of various provisions therein. One part of such challenge had been founded on the ground that the classification between 'financial creditor' and 'operational creditor' was discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. This ground as also several other grounds pertaining to various provisions of the Code were rejected by this Court after elaborate dilation on the vast variety of rival contentions. In the course, this Court took note, inter alia, of the pre-existing state of law as also the objects and reasons for enactment of the Code. While observing that focus of the Code was to ensure revival and continuation of the corporate debtor, where liquidation would be the last resort, this Court pointed out that on its scheme and framework, the Code was a beneficial legislation to put the corporate debtor on its feet, and not a mere recovery legislation for the creditors. This Court said, -

Precedent : "27. As is discernible, the Preamble gives an insight into what is sought to be achieved by the Code. The Code is first and foremost, a Code for reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate debtors. Unless such reorganisation is effected in a time-bound manner, the value of the assets of such persons will deplete. Therefore, maximisation of value of the assets of such persons so that they are efficiently run as going concerns is another very important objective of the Code. This, in turn, will promote entrepreneurship as the persons in management of the corporate debtor are removed and replaced by entrepreneurs. When, therefore, a resolution plan takes off and the corporate debtor is brought back into the economic mainstream, it is able to repay its debts, which, in turn, enhances the viability of credit in the hands of banks and financial institutions. Above all, ultimately, the interests of all stakeholders are looked after as the corporate debtor itself becomes a beneficiary of the resolution scheme-workers are paid, the creditors in the long run will be repaid in full, and shareholders/investors are able to maximise their investment. Timely resolution of a corporate debtor who is in the red, by an effective legal framework, would go a long way to support the development of credit markets. Since more investment can be made with funds that have come back into the economy, business then eases up, which leads, overall, to higher economic growth and development of the Indian economy. What is interesting to note is that the Preamble does not, in any manner, refer to liquidation, which is only availed of as a last resort if there is either no resolution plan or the resolution plans submitted are not up to the mark. Even in liquidation, the liquidator can sell the business of the corporate debtor as a going concern. (See ArcelorMittal ArcelorMittal (India) (P) Ltd. v. Satish Kumar Gupta & Ors: (2019) 2 SCC 1 at para 83, fn 3)

Precedent : 66. The relevant aspects relating to the steps in CIRP for approval of the resolution plan have come up for interpretation before this Court in at least three major decisions, in the cases of K. Sashidhar v. Indian Overseas Bank and Ors.: (2019) 12 SCC 150 (decided on 05.02.2019), Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited v. Satish Kumar Gupta and Ors.: (2020) 8 SCC 531 (decided on 15.11.2019), and Maharashtra Seamless Limited v. Padmanabhan Venkatesh and Ors.: (2020) 11 SCC 467 (decided on 22.01.2020). The contesting parties have also relied upon these decisions in support of their respective contentions. We shall be referring to these cases in a little detail in the later part of this judgment while determining Point A concerning the scope of the jurisdiction of the Adjudicating Authority in dealing with the resolution plan approved by the Committee of Creditors. At this juncture, we may only indicate the importance of a few essential role players in the process, as discernible from the relevant provisions of the Code and as exposited by this Court.

Precedent : 77.4. During the course of submissions, one of the parties (YEIDA), seeking to support modification of the resolution plan concerning some of the terms and stipulations, has referred to a decision by a learned Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Pradumna Kumar Jain v. U.P. Secondary Education Service Commission, Allahabad and Ors.: (1997) 30 ALR 339 to submit that the power to approve or disapprove includes the power to modify; and it has been strongly argued that the power to modify is inherent in the power of approval in terms of Section 31 of the Code. It is noticed that the questions involved in the cited decision related to the powers under Regulation 8 of the U.P. Secondary Education Services Commission (Procedure for Approval of Punishment) Regulations, 1985, which provided that 'the Commission shall after due consideration approve or disapprove the punishment proposed or may issue any other directions deemed fit in the case'. While interpreting the said provision, where the Commission was to act as a superior authority and the provision itself postulated that the said authority could 'issue any other directions deemed fit', the Court held that the expressions indicated the existence of the power to modify. We are afraid, the principles stated in the said decision or in other decisions of like nature cannot be imported to read the power to modify the resolution plan into Section 31 of the Code.

Precedent : 86. We may now enter into the first major point for determination in this batch of matters; and that relates to the stipulations in the resolution plan concerning the land providing agency YEIDA. The frontal aspect of this issue is about the provision made in the resolution plan for meeting with the contingent liability of additional compensation for land acquisition. The other aspect pertains to the directions by the Adjudicating Authority for execution of tripartite agreement amongst YEIDA, the corporate debtor JIL and the SPVs proposed to be set up in terms of the resolution plan. An ancillary aspect relates to certain reliefs and concessions sought for by the resolution applicant.

Precedent : 88. The issue pertaining to additional amount of land acquisition compensation cropped up in the wake of a decision of the Full Bench of Allahabad High Court dated 21.10.2011 in the case of Gajraj and Ors. v. State of U.P. and Ors.: 2011 SCC OnLine All 1711, wherein the High Court ruled in favour of payment of additional compensation to the land owners involved therein. The said decision in Gajraj was upheld by this Court in the case of Savitri Devi v. State of U.P. & Ors.: (2015) 7 SCC 21. In sequel, a spate of litigation in Allahabad High Court concerning other parcels of land came up and several other land owners, including whose land stood acquired for the project in question, demanded additional compensation. It is stated by YEIDA that looking to such litigations and agitations, the Government of U.P. proceeded to set up a committee called the 'Chaudhary Committee'; and the said committee recommended for grant of additional compensation (to the extent of 64.7%) to the land owners whose land had been acquired. While accepting these recommendations, the Government of U.P. proceeded to issue G.O. dated 29.08.2014, directing YEIDA to ensure payment of additional compensation to all the land owners. In this turn of events, YEIDA demanded the amount of additional compensation from JIL to the tune of INR 2591.78 crores by its communication dated 20.01.2015 and yet another amount of approximately INR 247 crores by its communication dated 31.05.2017.

Precedent : 90. Apart from the above, the resolution applicant also proposed to set up two separate SPVs, one being Expressway SPV and another being Land Bank SPV. It was proposed that the assets and liabilities pertaining to Expressway shall be transferred to the Expressway SPV by way of transfer of 100% shareholding and the concession rights under the CA; and that out of the unutilised parcels of land available with the corporate debtor, 1,526 acres shall be transferred to Land Bank SPV; and that Land Bank SPV will also take over the admitted financial debt to the tune of INR 5,100 crores. In the resolution plan, the applicant also stated about the approvals required and its assumptions in that regard in the following terms: -

Precedent : 93. Another part of objection was that if the concessionaire's rights and obligations were proposed to be transferred to SPVs, proper documentation was required, so that YEIDA could exercise its rights over the SPVs concerned. It was yet further submitted that withdrawal of the arbitration case could not be thrust upon YEIDA.

Precedent : 94. As noticed, the Adjudicating Authority observed in regard to these issues concerning YEIDA that looking to the terms of CA, the Committee of Creditors should not have approved the resolution plan stating that the compensation, if awarded, shall be collected from the end-users. However, the Adjudicating Authority proceeded to modulate such terms 'to make the plan viable' and provided that the resolution plan be read to mean that YEIDA shall have a right to collect acquisition cost through the SPVs concerned. With regard to the issue of additional compensation concerning the land of Expressway, the Adjudicating Authority considered it appropriate to read the resolution plan in the way that it is left open to both the parties to have proper recourse over this issue before a competent forum when the time would come for payment of additional compensation. As regards transfer of concessionaire's rights and obligations to SPVs, the Adjudicating Authority was of the view that, when JIL as concessionaire was, for the first time, proposing to transfer its rights and obligations to SPVs, the documents involving the concessionaire JIL, YEIDA and the SPV concerned were required to be executed. The NCLT also observed that the CA was based on the statute created by the State Government and, therefore, violation of its terms and conditions would be a violation of the law in force and would not be permissible in terms of Section 30(2) of the Code.

Precedent : "6-A Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other provisions of this Act and subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified in the regulations, the Authority may, by Agreement, authorize any person to provide or maintain or continue to provide or maintain any infrastructure or amenities under this Act and to collect taxes or fees, as the case may be, levied therefore." it is contended that YEIDA may by an agreement authorise any person to provide or maintain, or continue to provide or maintain, any infrastructure or amenities and therefore, once an agreement was reached between JIL and YEIDA, their relationship would be governed by that contract (Concession Agreement). It is submitted that while enacting Section 6-A of the U.P. Act of 1976, the intent of the legislature has been to carve out a contractual relationship distinct from the statute and this goes against the whole construct of 'statutory contract' which YEIDA is trying to project. The decisions of this Court in the cases of India Thermal Power Ltd. v. State of M.P. and Ors.: (2000) 3 SCC 379 and Kerala State Electricity Board and Anr. v. Kurien E. Kalathil and Ors.: (2000) 6 SCC 293 have been referred to submit that merely for YEIDA being a statutory body, the contract in question does not partake the character of a statutory contract. This issue relating to contingent liability of additional compensation, according to NBCC, is required to be settled for proper implementation of the resolution plan or else, it may lead to serious impediment in future.

Precedent : 95.5. As regards decision of this Court in the case of Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) v. Abhilash Lal and Ors.: (2019) SCC OnLine SC 1479, which is relied upon by YEIDA, it is submitted that the said decision is not applicable to the facts of the present case because therein, MCGM had not entered into a binding lease agreement containing the terms similar to the CA applicable to the parties herein. Moreover, in the said decision, the statute, i.e., Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai Act, 1888, itself provided that the only way MCGM's properties could be dealt with was through lease or by way of creation of any other interest with the prior permission of MCGM, but there is no similar provision in the U.P. Act of 1976.

Precedent : 99.1. In the first place, YEIDA has submitted that the resolution applicant is not correct in suggesting that the Adjudicating Authority has dealt with the interpretation of CA to hold that compensation was to be paid by the concessionaire and by the proposed SPVs. Paragraph 118 of the impugned order dated 03.03.2020 has been referred wherein, the Adjudicating Authority stated that the question, as to whether additional compensation was a part of the acquisition cost, was not being examined because it had already been adjudicated in arbitration and is pending in the Court.

Precedent : 99.2. While supporting the other part of impugned order dated 03.03.2020, it is submitted that there being no privity of contract between YEIDA and the end-users, the amount towards additional compensation could only be collected from the SPVs and not directly from the end-users. According to YEIDA, the Adjudicating Authority has rightly modified the mechanism in the resolution plan for collection of additional compensation in the manner that instead of collecting the amount directly from the end-users, YEIDA would now be collecting it through the SPVs concerned. This has, according to YEIDA, no impact on the commercial aspects of the resolution plan.

Precedent : 99.4. As regards the land falling under Expressway, YEIDA has questioned the contentions urged on behalf of NBCC and it is submitted that such a ground was not taken in the appeal filed against the impugned order and was raised for the first time in written submissions. Nevertheless, according to YEIDA, the argument is patently incorrect, for it ignores the fact that the corporate debtor JIL and its successor SPVs would derive the benefits of both, the toll collected from Expressway for 36 years as also from the other land for development. It has also been submitted that the additional compensation for Expressway, when to be passed on to the end-users, could only be passed on to the commuters in the form of appropriate adjustment in the toll, but not otherwise.

Precedent : 99.5. Moving on to the questions related with creation of SPVs, transfer of land to them and the aforesaid stipulations in the resolution plan, it is submitted that the project in question is an integrated and indivisible one, as held by this Court in the case of Nand Kishore Gupta & Ors. v. State of U.P. & Ors.: (2010) 10 SCC 282 and hence, its bifurcation is impermissible.

Precedent : 100. The submissions so made on behalf of YEIDA have been supported by the erstwhile director of JIL with reference to the decision in Embassy Property (supra) and with the submissions that YEIDA being a statutory body created under the U.P. Act of 1976, the agreement entered into between YEIDA and the corporate debtor is statutory in nature and this relationship is not just contractual but is statutorily governed. The requirement that YEIDA must collect compensation from the homebuyers or end-users in case it succeeds in the arbitration case, according to the erstwhile director, is in contravention of the law for the time being in force, for it violates the U.P. Act of 1976. It is further submitted that the Adjudicating Authority has rightly ordered execution of tripartite agreement involving the proposed SPVs. In essence, the submission has been that the treatment of YEIDA in the resolution plan is not in conformity with the law and the order passed by the Adjudicating Authority calls for no interference.

Precedent : 102.2. Apart from above, another part of the submissions on behalf of YEIDA with reference to the case of Nand Kishore Gupta (supra) against incorporation of two SPVs cannot be accepted. The observations of this Court in the case of Nand Kishore Gupta (supra) came in the wake of challenge to the very acquisition process concerning the land parcels for the project in question, that is Yamuna Expressway Project. One of the arguments therein was that about 25 million square kilometres of land was being acquired for 5 parcels of land to be given for commercial exploitation. This Court found the High Court right in commenting that such creation of 5 zones for industry, residence, amusement etc. was going to be complementary to the creation of highway. However, the observations in Nand Kishore Gupta (supra), holding all the parcels of land to be part of integrated and indivisible project, cannot be read to mean that creation of two SPVs by the concessionaire, one for the Expressway and another for the remaining land for commercial development, can never be provided.

Precedent : 104.1. The other clauses in CA permitting creation of sub-lease could hardly be applied for en bloc transfer of land to the SPVs, as proposed in the resolution plan. The referred Clauses 4.3(d) and 4.3(e) were essentially meant for creation of sub-leases when the land given to the concessionaire for development, or part thereof, was to be sub-leased to the end-user/s. Even in that regard, the provisions were made for the concessionaire to make a request to the land providing agency to execute the lease-deed directly in favour of its subsidiaries, assigns or transferees; and in case the agency and the concessionaire would consider it appropriate, tripartite agreement for sub-lease may be executed. Taking all the relevant clauses together with the substance and purport of CA, it is difficult to countenance that the proposed transfer to SPVs could be treated as an ordinary sub-lease for which, no documentation involving YEIDA would be required.

Precedent : 104.2. Although, as urged, the proposal to create two separate SPVs may not be impermissible looking to the framework of the CA, where different stipulations were made in relation to the land for constructing Expressway with its allied facilities and the land for commercial exploitation, respectively in Clauses 4.1 and 4.3 of the CA, but the question is as to the method of transfer of concessionaire's rights and obligations to such SPVs. That could only be in accordance with the approval of YEIDA and with the execution of necessary tripartite documents as envisaged by CA.

Precedent : 104.3. As observed hereinbefore, looking to the terms and purport of the CA, creation of two SPVs, one for Expressway and another for the remaining land for commercial development, is not altogether prohibited but then, it cannot be suggested by NBCC that such creation of SPVs could be even without necessary documentation involving YEIDA. In this regard, YEIDA seems to be right in its contentions that such documentation is even otherwise required for avoiding any ambiguity about the rights and obligations and also for itself (YEIDA) to properly monitor the functioning of SPVs, each of which would stand in the capacity of concessionaire and would be carrying the rights and obligations under the CA.

Precedent : 105.1. Concisely put, as per the resolution plan, the contingent liability concerning additional amount of land acquisition compensation is proposed to be dealt with in the manner that in the event any such amount of additional compensation is to be paid, YEIDA would collect the same from the end-users; and as regards the land of Expressway, such additional compensation shall be payable by YEIDA because YEIDA will be the end-user on getting ownership of the land of Expressway after expiry of the concession period. NBCC has justified these propositions on various grounds as noticed hereinabove. YEIDA takes serious exception to them and particularly to the stipulation that additional compensation in regard to the land of Yamuna Expressway would be payable by it. The Adjudicating Authority has made two-fold modifications in this regard. In paragraph 120 of the impugned order dated 03.03.2020, the Adjudicating Authority has said that to iron out creases and to make the resolution plan viable, it would direct that the plan shall be read to mean that YEIDA has a right to collect acquisition cost through the SPVs concerned. On the other hand, concerning the Expressway land, the Adjudicating Authority has provided in paragraph 122 of the impugned order that the resolution plan would be read to mean that it is left open to both the parties to have proper recourse before competent forum when the time comes for payment of additional compensation. In the submissions of YEIDA, such modifications were necessary to make the plan compliant with the rights and obligations under the CA.

Precedent : 106.1. It appears that while proposing to create two different SPVs, the resolution applicant stumbled on an idea that the liability for additional compensation as regards Expressway land could be simply deflected to YEIDA with reference to the fact that YEIDA will get this land back after 36 years; and reflected this idea by way of the questioned proposition in the resolution plan. The Adjudicating Authority has chosen to leave this issue open, for being litigated at the appropriate time and before the competent forum. In our view, such a prescription as regards Expressway land amounts to alterations of the material terms of CA and cannot be made without the consent of YEIDA. This aspect could have only been disapproved.

Precedent : 106.3. It needs no great deal of discussion to find that the said aspect concerning the provision for additional compensation, if not approved on material terms, is of significant commercial impact. Even the other modification by the Adjudicating Authority, that YEIDA shall have a right to collect acquisition cost through SPVs concerned, carry their own commercial implications. These are not the terms which could be taken up for modification without disturbing the financial proposal of the resolution plan. While these prescriptions could not have been approved, in our view, the Adjudicating Authority could not have entered into any process of modification. The only course open for the Adjudicating Authority (NCLT) was to send the plan back to the Committee of Creditors for reconsideration.

Precedent : 112. The dissenting financial creditor of JIL, namely, ICICI Bank Limited, took exception to the stipulations aforesaid and submitted before the Adjudicating Authority that being a dissenting financial creditor, it was entitled to receive cash payment as per the liquidation value in terms of Section 30(2)(b) of the Code read with Regulation 38(1)(b) of the CIRP Regulations; and providing for land and equity in the proposed SPVs in lieu of the requisite payment was entirely impermissible. These objections were countered by IRP and NBCC with the submissions that it was nowhere provided in the scheme of the Code and CIRP Regulations that payment of liquidation value to the dissenting financial creditor has to be in cash. It was also submitted that when mode of discharge of obligation towards dissenting financial creditor was not envisaged only by way of cash payment, money or other valuable thing delivered to discharge the obligation would be construed as "payment", fulfilling the requirement of Section 30(2) of the Code. It was also submitted that when the assenting financial creditors were not being paid in cash, any such payment to the dissenting financial creditors would cause prejudice to the rights of the assenting financial creditors. As noticed, the Adjudicating Authority rejected the stand so taken by IRP and NBCC and observed that all the provisions and specifications of the Board made it clear that payment to dissenting financial creditors means payment of the amount; and it cannot be argued that the payment could also be in a manner other than cash. The Adjudicating Authority also rejected the contention made with reference to the treatment assigned to the assenting financial creditors while observing that a person agreeing might agree for anything but the same may not be acceptable to the person disagreeing. Accordingly, the Adjudicating Authority (NCLT) did not approve the proposal in the resolution plan as regards treatment of the dissenting financial creditors.

Precedent : 113.2.1. As regards the expression "payment" for the purpose of Section 30(2) of the Code, the meaning of this term stated in Black's Law Dictionary (9th Edition) has been referred. Further, reliance is placed on the decisions of this Court in the case of Pioneer Urban (supra), Himachal Pradesh Housing and Urban Development Authority and Anr. v. Ranjit Singh Rana: (2012) 4 SCC 505; and on the decision of the Court of Appeal for the 6th Circuit, USA in the case of Samuel Katkin and Doris Katkin v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue: 570 F.2d 139 as also on a decision of the High Court of Calcutta wherein, a decision of the Court of Appeal of England in White v. Elmdene Estates Ltd.: 1959 ALL ER 605 has been relied upon. With reference to the Dictionary meaning and the cited decisions, the contention has been that "payment" means the discharge of an obligation by delivery of money or its equivalent; and the expression "payment" is not restricted to delivery of money or legal tender only.

Precedent : 113.2.3. It is also contended that the word 'payment' is required to be interpreted with reference to its context and placement; and to support the submissions on contextual interpretation, reliance is placed on the decisions in Commissioner of Income Tax, Madhya Pradesh & Bhopal v. Shrimati Sodra Devi: AIR 1957 SC 832; Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority v. Gobinda Chandra Makal and Anr.: (2011) 9 SCC 207; Indian Handicrafts Emporium and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors.: 2003 (7) SCC 589; CIT, Bangalore v. Venkateswara Hatcheries (P) Ltd.: (1999) 3 SCC 632; and Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth and Anr.: (1977) 4 SCC 193.

Precedent : 113.2.4. It has also been submitted that the context in relation to the word "payment" needs to be examined in terms of the object and purpose of resolution of insolvency and not in terms of recovery of debt; and in the light of the fact that for the purpose of insolvency resolution, a resolution plan may provide for various ways of settlement of claims. On the scheme of the Code and object and purpose of resolution, the decisions in ArcelorMittal and Swiss Ribbons (supra) have been referred. Regulation 37(1) of the CIRP Regulations has also been referred wherein it is provided that a resolution plan may provide for securities in exchange of claims. It is also submitted that limiting the word "payment" only to mean cash would defeat the purpose of resolution and would rather incentivise dissent. It is submitted that such mode of payment by cash should not be read in the statute, when not provided therein. The decision of this Court in the case of State through Central Bureau of Investigation v. Parmeshwaran Subramani and Anr.: (2009) 9 SCC 729 has been referred.

Precedent : 114.3. It is contended that Section 53 contemplates the proceeds from the sale of the liquidation assets to be utilised to pay the dissenting financial creditors and there is no such conceivable possibility that the assets of a corporate debtor would be liquidated in any other consideration, apart from cash. The payment, for the purpose of Section 30(2)(b) of the Code, would only be in terms of money or a legal tender; and it is entirely impermissible for a resolution applicant to pay such liquidation value to the dissenting financial creditor in kind, unless the latter accepts such form of payment. Various decisions on the process of interpretation have been referred on behalf of the objector bank including those in Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth (supra) and Rathi Khandsari Udyog and Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Ors.: (1985) 2 SCC 485.

Precedent : 115. The submissions so made on behalf of the dissenting financial creditor bank have also been supported by the erstwhile director of the corporate debtor JIL and JAL. It is submitted that the proposition in the resolution plan to satisfy the claim of the dissenting financial creditors in the form of share and equity or transfer of land parcels is not in conformity with the requirements of Section 30(2)(b) of the Code. It is also submitted that proposing to satisfy the claim of the dissenting financial creditors by a mode other than monetary payment is tantamount to reading the word 'equivalent' in the relevant provision, which is entirely impermissible in law. The decision of this Court in the case of Dadi Jagannadham v. Jammulu Ramulu and Ors.: (2001) 7 SCC 71, has been referred. It is also submitted that reliance of NBCC on Regulation 37 of the CIRP Regulations, to justify the manner in which dissenting financial creditors are to be paid, is misplaced because instead of Regulation 37, the relevant provision which needs consideration is Regulation 38(1)(b), as it is directly related to Section 30(2)(b)(ii) of the Code. It is, therefore, maintained that the resolution plan, as regards prescription for the dissenting financial creditors, being violative of the requirements of law, could not have been approved.

Precedent : "54. Now, it is undoubtedly true that where the language of an enactment is plain and clear upon its face and by itself susceptible to only one meaning, then ordinarily that meaning would have to be given by the Court. In such a case the task of interpretation can hardly be said to arise. But language at best is an imperfect medium of expression and a variety of significations may often lie in a word or expression. It has, therefore, been said that the words of a statute must be understood in the sense which the legislature has in view and their meaning must be found not so much in a strictly grammatical or etymological propriety of language, nor in its popular use, as in the subject or the occasion on which they are used and the object to be attained. It was said by Mr. Justice Holmes in felicitous language in Town v. Eisner that "a word is not a crystal, transparent and unchanged; it is the skin of a living thought and may vary greatly in colour and content according to the circumstances and the time in which it is used". The words used in a statute cannot be read in isolation: their colour and content are derived from their context and, therefore, every word in a statute must be examined in its context. And when I use the word 'context', I mean it in its widest sense "as including not only other enacting provisions of the same statute but its preamble, the existing state of the law, other statutes in pari materia and the mischief which - the statute was intended to remedy". The context is of the greatest importance in the interpretation of the words used in a statute. "It is quite true", pointed out Judge Learned Hand in Helvering v. Gregory "that as the articulation of a statute increases, the room for interpretation must contract; but the meaning of a sentence may be more than that of the separate words, as a melody is more than the notes, and no degree of particularity can every obviate recourse to the setting in which all appear, and which all collectively create". Again, it must be remembered that though the words used are the primary, and ordinarily the most reliable, source of interpreting the meaning of any writing, be it a statute, or contract, or anything else, it is one of the surest indexes of a mature and developed jurisprudence not to make a fortress out of the dictionary, but to remember that a statute always has some purpose or object to accomplish, whose sympathetic and imaginative discovery, is the surest guide to its meaning. The literal construction should not obsess the Court, because it has only prima facie preference, the real object of interpretation being to find out the true intent of the law maker and that can be done only by reading the statute as an organic whole, with each part throwing light on the other and bearing in mind the rule in Heydon's case which requires four things to be "discerned and considered" in arriving at the real meaning : (1) what was the law before the Act was passed; (2) what was the mischief or defect for which the law had not provided; (3) what remedy Parliament has appointed; and (4) the reason of the remedy. There is also another rule of interpretation which is equally well settled and which seems to follow as a necessary corollary, namely, where the words, according to their literal meaning "produce an inconsistency, or an absurdity or inconvenience so great as to convince the Court that the intention could not have been to use them in their ordinary signification", the Court would be justified in "putting on them some other signification, which, though less proper, is one which the Court thinks the words will bear". Vide River Wear Commissioners v. Admson. It is in the light of these principles of interpretation that I must proceed to consider what is the true meaning and effect of clause (1) of Article 222: whether it permits transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another, irrespective of his consent."

Precedent : 139. The objector YES Bank has taken exception to the aforesaid part of the order impugned with the submissions that no such settlement was drawn out with NBCC and the Adjudicating Authority has failed to consider the objections on rather incorrect assumptions. It is submitted that the resolution plan interferes with the statutorily protected rights of the lenders of JHL, who are effectively the third parties and not the members of CoC of JIL. It is also submitted that the transfer of the entire undertaking and business of JHL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JIL, under the garb of sale of equity is not permissible as per the Section 18(f) read with its Explanation (b) and Regulation 37(a) of the CIRP Regulations whereby, the resolution plan is only limited to the assets of the corporate debtor. With reference to various decisions, including that in the case of Vodafone International Holdings BV v. Union of India and Anr.: (2012) 6 SCC 613, it is submitted that holding company does not own the undertaking or business of subsidiary company even if it holds all the shares therein. It is also contended that the CIRP of JHL must be independently conducted as the sale of business or undertaking in the manner suggested by NBCC severely prejudices the rights of the creditors of JHL to recover their legitimate dues. It is yet further submitted that the shares of JIL, the corporate debtor, are subject to the pledge created by them to secure the debts of JHL and the resolution plan cannot unilaterally extinguish the security interest provided to the lenders of JHL, who are not the creditors of JIL and therefore, not the part of the CoC of JIL. This objector bank submits that the resolution plan does not account for the total debts incurred by JHL and the securities or encumbrances, to the extent of 63.65% of the shares, as created by JHL over its assets. It has, therefore, been prayed that this objector bank be allowed to continue with its appeal before the Allahabad Bench of NCLT against JHL and the portion of resolution plan dealing with JHL and its assets be deleted.

Precedent : 159.4.4. This association has also relied upon decision of this Court in the case of Wg. Cdr. Arifur Rahman Khan & Ors. v. DLF Southern Homes Pvt. Ltd. & Ors.: (2020) SCC OnLine SC 667 and has prayed for a relief of 6% p.a. simple interest which shall be attached to the allottees of the project "Jaypee Greens Aman" on the total amount paid towards the purchase of the flats in addition to the delay period penalty. It is also submitted that the allottees of Tower Nos. 23, 24, 25 & 27 should not be discriminated and must be treated at par with other allottees, who have already received the penalty for delayed period.

Precedent : 30. As a matter of fact, the Code and RERA operate in completely different spheres. The Code deals with a proceeding in rem in which the focus is the rehabilitation of the corporate debtor. This is to take place by replacing the management of the corporate debtor by means of a resolution plan which must be accepted by 66% of the Committee of Creditors, which is now put at the helm of affairs, in deciding the fate of the corporate debtor. Such resolution plan then puts the same or another management in the saddle, subject to the provisions of the Code, so that the corporate debtor may be pulled out of the woods and may continue as a going concern, thus benefitting all stakeholders involved. It is only as a last resort that winding up of the corporate debtor is resorted to, so that its assets may be liquidated and paid out in the manner provided by Section 53 of the Code. On the other hand, RERA protects the interests of the individual investor in real estate projects by requiring the promoter to strictly adhere to its provisions. The object of RERA is to see that real estate projects come to fruition within the stated period and to see that allottees of such projects are not left in the lurch and are finally able to realise their dream of a home, or be paid compensation if such dream is shattered, or at least get back monies that they had advanced towards the project with interest. At the same time, recalcitrant allottees are not to be tolerated, as they must also perform their part of the bargain, namely, to pay instalments as and when they become due and payable. Given the different spheres within which these two enactments operate, different parallel remedies are given to allottees under RERA to see that their flat/apartment is constructed and delivered to them in time, barring which compensation for the same and/or refund of amounts paid together with interest at the very least comes their way. If, however, the allottee wants that the corporate debtor's management itself be removed and replaced, so that the corporate debtor can be rehabilitated, he may prefer a Section 7 application under the Code. That another parallel remedy is available is recognised by RERA itself in the proviso to Section 71(1), by which an allottee may continue with an application already filed before the Consumer Protection Fora, he being given the choice to withdraw such complaint and file an application before the adjudicating officer under RERA read with Section 88. In similar circumstances, this Court in Swaraj Infrastructure (P) Ltd. v. Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. has held that the Debts Recovery Tribunal proceedings under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 and winding-up proceedings under the Companies Act, 1956 can carry on in parallel streams (see paras 21 and 22 therein)."

Precedent : 178.4. The institutional financial creditor of JAL has contended that the deposit of INR 750 crores was made by JAL out of its own money and has continued to be its asset; and that in the absence of any direction by the Supreme Court or any legal transfer, the ownership of this deposit would not change, and this money is required to be returned to JAL. It is submitted that this Court has consistently laid down that an act of the Court cannot prejudice any party before it and in case it happens, the Court is bound to revert the party to the position prior to such an act of the Court. The decision in the case of ONGC and Anr. v. Association of Natural Gas Consuming Industries and Ors.: (2001) 6 SCC 627 has been referred. It is submitted that JAL deposited the money on the directions of this Court for securing the interests of homebuyers but, since the Court did not make any direction for the utilisation of this deposit and simply transferred the fund to NCLT, JAL is entitled to be restored to its original position with return of this amount. It is reiterated that the IRP cannot lay a claim over the assets of a third party, held in trust or in possession of the corporate debtor. It is also re-emphasised that the directions to JAL for making this deposit was to arrive at an interim workable arrangement and to protect the interests of the homebuyers; but when the purpose became moot after the amendment of IBC, the money is supposed to be returned to its owner, i.e., JAL. It is submitted that JAL itself is in financial distress and is unable to meet with the obligations towards its stakeholders and an application under Section 7 of the Code for the CIRP of JAL is pending. With these submissions, it has been prayed that the deposited amount with accrued interest be ordered to be returned to JAL and be further ordered to be kept in an escrow account under the control of the lenders of JAL, led by ICICI Bank.

Precedent : vi. It is pertinent to mention that the Hon'ble Court by judgment dated 26.02.2020 in Civil Appeal No. 8512-8527 of 2019 Anuj Jain vs. Axis Bank Limited etc. etc. (2020 SCC Online SC 237) ("758 Acres Judgment") has set aside mortgage created on 758 acres of land belonging to JIL to secure the debts of JAL on the ground that the same were preferential transactions. However, apart from the said 758 acres of land, mortgage of 100 acres of land of JIL to secure JAL's debts could not be set aside as the same was beyond the look back period. Thus, at present a mortgage of 100 acres of land of JIL still exists to secure the debts of JAL. Hence, an amount equivalent to the market value of the 100 acre mortgaged land (mortgaged against 1500 crore loan) could be payable by JAL to JIL, subject to JIL exercising the remedies available to it under the law in this regard. The equivalent value of the said land as per the valuation taken for the purpose of the Resolution Plan (land proposed to be transferred through land SPV) is INR 328 crores.

Precedent : 186. We may observe that the decisions cited by the parties do not require much discussion. The principles in the cited decisions including those in the case of Embassy Property (supra) that the assets belonging to a third party cannot be utilised towards resolution of a corporate debtor remain fundamental and beyond cavil. Equally, the reference to the maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit, and to the decision in ONGC (supra) has been rather unnecessary because the said principle is essentially employed for the purpose of restitution and putting a party in the position where he would have been but for intervention or lapse of the Court. This principle has been succinctly explained by this Court in the case of South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. v. State of M.P. & Ors.: (2003) 8 SCC 648 in the following words: -

Precedent : 195. In the resolution plan, apart from various stipulations in regard to the land of JIL and creation of two SPVs with transfer of certain parcels of land, the resolution applicant stated in Clause 23 of Schedule 3 relating to 'reliefs and concessions' as under: -

